HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION I AM
CHAIRPERSON DAVID ROCHLIN THE
TIME OF SEVEN OH THREE AND
WE'LL BEGIN WITH SOME NOTES
ABOUT THE MEETING FORMAT.
>> REMOTE PARTICIPATION IN THIS
MEETING IS AVAILABLE BY
TELEPHONE OR THROUGH ONLINE
VIDEO CONFERENCING.
>> PLEASE SEE THE MEETING
AGENDA FOR REMOTE PARTICIPATION
CONTACT INFORMATION INCLUDING
PHONE NUMBERS IN THE WEBLINK
THERE IS PUBLIC COMMENT
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR BY
TELEPHONE DURING THE MEETING
COMMENT AGENDA ITEM AND DURING
EACH PUBLIC HEARING.
FINALLY, HERE'S AN OVERVIEW
OF THE SEQUENCE OF EVENTS FOR
EACH HEARING ON THE AGENDA.
FIRST, PLANNING SERVICES STAFF
WILL DELIVER THEIR REPORT
FOLLOWED BY A REPORT FROM THIS
MONTH'S COMMISSIONER REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
THEN THE APPLICANT WILL PROVIDE
THEIR PRESENTATION AND ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSIONERS.
AT THAT POINT THE HEARING WILL
BE OPEN FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
FOLLOWING PUBLIC COMMENT, THE
COMMISSION WILL MAKE A MOTION
AND DISCUSS THE APPLICATION.
>> FINALLY, THE APPROVAL FROM A
MAJORITY OF COMMISSIONERS
PRESENT WILL BE REQUIRED FOR A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATE IS
TO BE GRANTED AND IN FACT WE
NEED FOUR COMMISSIONERS HERE
FOR A QUORUM.
WE ONLY HAVE THREE RIGHT NOW.
WE WILL CONTINUE THROUGH THE
MEETING AS LONG AS WE CAN AND
DO AS MUCH AS WE CAN HERE.
BUT FIRST THINGS FIRST MISS
THATCHER, WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL?
>> I WILL ADD JUST A NOTE TO
AND I THINK YOU PROBABLY KNOW
THIS BUT WE JUST LOST THE ZOO.
COMMISSIONER CALDERON HERE, MR
NISBETT HERE, COMMISSIONER
ROCHLIN HERE.
MR ROSS, COMMISSIONER SMITH,
COMMISSIONER CARTER AND
COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN IS EXPECTED
.
>> YOU ARE WORKING ON A QUORUM
BUT YOU'RE NOT QUITE THERE YET.
RIGHT.
AND BESIDES COMMISSIONER
CAPLAN, OTHERS WERE EXPECTED.
I KNOW COMMISSIONER CARTER WAS
OUT NO.
AND COMMISSIONER ONLY KAPLINSKY
SO SMITH AND ROSABELLE YEAH.
>> OK OUT.
OH OK.
I BELIEVE KAPLIN SAID HE
COULDN'T COME NOW HE HE CHANGED
HIS PLANS THEN HE SAID HE CAME
SO THAT WE COULD HAVE THE
MEETING WHICH IT VERY I GOT IT
OK WELL HOPEFULLY HE SHOWS UP
SOON SO WE CAN GET TO OUR
HEARING ESPECIALLY BUT WE DO
HAVE SOME OTHER WORK TO GET TO
BEFORE THAT AND WE CAN WE COULD
STALL WITH SOME OTHER THINGS TO
HOPEFULLY GET HERE.
>> IT WOULD BE YEAH.
ANYWAY, LET'S JUST MOVE ON TO
THE APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
>> I'M GUESSING THERE ARE NOT
ANY CHANGES TO TONIGHT'S AGENDA
AND I'M NOT HEARING OR SEEING
ANY SO WE'LL JUST APPROVE THE
AGENDA AS PRESENTED AND MOVE ON
TO PUBLIC COMMENT THAT'S ITEM D
ON THE AGENDA.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE HERE
STEPPING FORWARD TO THE PODIUM
AND DID I HEAR THAT WE'VE LOST
OUR ZUN MEETING?
YES.
WHAT IS GOING WHAT HAPPENED?
I DON'T KNOW.
YEAH, WE DON'T BE AN INTERNET
PROBLEM IN THE BUILDING RIGHT.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
AND THAT IS HOW THE THE CALLERS
WOULD ATTEND THE PUBLIC.
>> THEY CAN STILL CALL IN BY
PHONE TO WORK BUT THERE I DON'T
KNOW IF THEY'RE ABLE TO WATCH
THIS LIVE OR NOT.
RIGHT.
OK, THEY'LL BE THEY MIGHT STILL
HEAR OUR VOICES OFTEN I DON'T
KNOW OK IS THIS COUNTS AS
PUBLIC LIKE IF YOU JUST HAVE
THIS YES.
DOES THIS COUNT OK GOOD BECAUSE
THAT'S THAT'S CRITICAL.
SO WE'VE GOT THAT TAKEN CARE
OF .
APOLOGIES TO ANYONE WHO WAS ON
ZOOME OR IS TRYING TO CALL IN
AND IT'S NOT WORKING BUT THAT
IS YOU'RE RIGHT THAT THEY
COULDN'T CALL IN SO YES THAT IS
UNFORTUNATE.
>> YEAH SO SORRY ABOUT THAT.
BUT WE WILL MOVE ON FROM PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THE NEXT ITEM IS UNFINISHED
BUSINESS AND WE DON'T HAVE ANY
ON UNFINISHED BUSINESS THIS
MONTH AND SO WE WOULD GENERALLY
GO ON TO HEARINGS BUT SINCE WE
DON'T HAVE A QUORUM YET,
PERHAPS WE SHOULD JUST TRUDGE
ON AHEAD AND SEE IF AND SEE
WHAT HAPPENS HERE.
BUT THE LONGER WE GO HERE, THE
MORE I'M JUST CONCERNED THAT
STEVE MAYBE ISN'T SHOWING UP.
WELL, DO YOU HAVE A DO YOU HAVE
YOUR PHONE OUT?
I MEAN HE IS PAUL MAYBE YOU'RE
RIGHT AND I CAN JUST STEP UP
AND GIVE HIM A CALL.
>> OK, IT WOULD BE NICE TO KNOW
I NEED TO TALK ABOUT YOU
PLANNING FOR NEXT MONTH.
YEAH.
THAT SOUNDS GOOD.
HE'S ALMOST THERE.
HE SAYS OH FANTASTIC.
YEAH.
I WAS WONDERING ABOUT OK GREAT.
>> SO OK SO LET'S GO ON TO NEW
BUSINESS AND WE DO HAVE NEW
BUSINESS BUT I'M WONDERING WHO
YOU SHOULD PROBABLY HOLD OFF ON
THAT TOO BECAUSE WHO WAS THE
BEN REEVES THE NOMINATING
COMMITTEE COMMITTEE FOR THAT
CHIP HORSEMEN.
>> YEAH SO WE CAN'T DO THAT
ANYWAY.
OK IS THAT OK TO POSTPONE THAT
ONE?
WE WILL TALK ABOUT IT.
>> WE'LL TALK ABOUT IT WHEN WE
GET THERE WHEN WE GET A QUORUM
WE'LL TALK ABOUT IT.
>> WE CAN TALK ABOUT THAT WHEN
WE GET A QUORUM AND WE PROBABLY
CAN'T APPROVE THE MINUTES
WITHOUT A QUORUM WE KNOW BUT WE
CAN'T GO TO ASSIGNMENT'S SO
LET'S TAKE CARE OF THAT.
SO NEXT MONTH IT'S MONDAY,
NOVEMBER 10TH.
I'M DOWN AT J.
>> IT'S A NOON REVIEW COMMITTEE
FOR THE THURSDAY MEETING THAT
ARE AHEAD OF YOU INTERESTED IN
THAT OR CAN YOU DO I THINK NOON
IS HARD FOR YOU RIGHT THEN AND
I'M HAPPY ABOUT IT.
>> YEAH, OK, GREAT.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
NAISBITT MUCH APPRECIATE
RECRUIT A SECOND.
>> YEAH WE'LL HEAR FROM THE
OTHERS.
WE'LL SWING BACK AROUND OK AND
I CAN TALK FOR A MINUTE ABOUT
THE ANNUAL REPORT.
YEAH GREAT.
SO I SENT OUT A POLL I THINK
MOST PEOPLE DO NOT QUITE
EVERYBODY WE CAN SAY THAT WAS
NOVEMBER 8TH WAS THE DATE THAT
SEEMED TO WORK THE BEST SO FAR
THE LAST TIME I CHECKED IT I
HAVE A COUNTERPROPOSAL THOUGH
SINCE WE USUALLY HAVE OUR BIG
RETREAT IN THE SPRING AND SINCE
WE'RE GOING NOW BE OFF SCHEDULE
AND BE DOING TWO REALLY CLOSE
TOGETHER LIKE IF WE DO ONE IN
NOVEMBER AND ONE IN APRIL WE'RE
NOT GOING TO HAVE MUCH TO DO IN
APRIL.
OK, SO AND I DON'T REALLY WANT
TO GET ON A FALL SCHEDULE ALL
THE TIME BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW
IT'S A THING WE DO IN THE
SPRING.
I'M GLAD TO REPORT THAT WE DID
IT ON MY ANNUAL REPORT.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
SO I DON'T THINK WE HAVE A
PREFERENCE.
I MEAN WHATEVER IS BETTER FOR
YOU WHEN I'M GOING TO PROPOSE
IS THAT WE HOLD THE ANNUAL
RETREAT BECAUSE WE NEED TO
YEAH.
NEXT MONTH BECAUSE I HAVE NO
ONE COMING IN THAT I'M TALKING
TO ABOUT PROJECTS THAT SO WE
MIGHT HAVE NO APPLICATION.
>> OH WE NEVER HAVE NO
APPLICATIONS WHEN I EXPECT NO
APPLICATIONS BUT IT MIGHT BE A
REALLY LIGHT MONTH.
OK, I HAVE ONE OR TWO SO AS A
PROPOSAL YOU SAID AFTER THE
MEETING A PROPOSAL JUST TO HOLD
A NOVEMBER MEETING WHEN IT'S
DONE GET DONE AT 8:00 OR
WHATEVER THEN HAVE A SORT OF A
CONDENSED VERSION FOR AN HOUR
OR SO WE CAN GO THROUGH THE
SLIDES AND WE CAN GO THROUGH
WITH THE BYLAWS THAT WE HAVE TO
LOOK AT EVERY YEAR.
RIGHT.
AND JUST DO LIKE AN HOUR AND AN
HOUR, SOMETHING LIKE AN HOUR
AND A HALF THREE.
YEAH, THAT'S WAY BETTER THAN
MEETING ON A SATURDAY.
OK, I AGREE.
YEAH OK OK OK GOOD GOOD GOOD.
>> NOW IF IF FIVE OR SIX
PROJECTS COME IN SHOULD WE HOLD
THE EIGHT.
>> I THINK PEOPLE SHOULD HOLD
TO EIGHT I THINK OPPIKOPPI
UNTIL WE HEAR FROM I CAN MAKE A
FINAL CALL.
>> YEAH YEAH.
LIKE AT SOME POINT GLEEKS FROM
TOMORROW WHAT APPLICATIONS ARE
DUE.
YEAH AND THEN WE'LL THEY'RE
GOING TO BE FIVE OR IF THERE'S
GOING TO BE ONE YEAH YEAH.
SOMETHING BETWEEN OK GOOD
BECAUSE WE HAVE TO HOLD ONE IN
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND IF WE DO
IF WE DON'T GET THE EIGHT THAT
WE'RE DOING I'M SURE YEAH OK
VERY GOOD THANK YOU FOR THAT
.
>> YEAH SO THAT'S ABOUT IT I
MEAN TO ANYONE WHO'S IN OUR
VIEWING PUBLIC BUT WE HAVE NO
COMMUNICATIONS.
I DON'T KNOW IF ANY OF YOU HAVE
ANY CONCERNS.
DO WE WANT TO TAKE THIS MOMENT
TO TRY TO RESTART ZOOM IN
BECAUSE WE HAVE A FEW MINUTES.
WELL I DID A COUPLE OF TIMES
BUT SURE I'LL DO IT AGAIN.
NO
RIGHT.
>> I THINK WE'RE TAKING A BREAK
RIGHT NOW.
YEAH YEAH.
LET'S LET'S TAKE TAKE FIVE AS
HE WANT TO.
>> YEAH.
HE'S IN A LITTLE ROOM OVER
THERE WATCHING SO MAYBE MAYBE
THEY CAN SEE US MAYBE WE'RE
BEING WELL IT LOOKS IT LOOKS
LIKE THE CAMERAS ARE
UM
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN IS HERE AND
WE'VE GOT FOUR COMMISSIONERS SO
WE'RE GOING TO CIRCLE BACK
AROUND IN THE AGENDA.
>> WE'VE BEEN THROUGH A THROUGH
E AND SO WE'RE GOING TO GO BACK
TO F HEARINGS AND WE'VE GOT ONE
HEARING TONIGHT.
IT'S F ONE.
IT'S FIVE FOURTEEN SIXTH STREET
.
WE'VE GOT THE ZOOM BACK UP AND
RUNNING SO WE SHOULD BE OK AND
I'LL JUST PASS IT OVER TO MISS
THATCHER WHENEVER YOU'RE READY
TO STEP HERE PLEASE.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
FIVE FIFTEEN FIVE FOURTEEN
SIXTH STREET IS IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
>> IT'S A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE WITH A
NONCONTRIBUTING GARAGE.
THE HOUSE HAS AN INTERESTING
HISTORY AND IT'S BEEN TO THE
SEA A COUPLE OF TIMES.
I'M NOT GOING TO GET INTO A LOT
OF THAT BUT IT WAS IT'S BEEN
THERE SINCE AT LEAST 1884 AND
THE GARAGE THAT WE'RE GOING TO
TALK ABOUT TONIGHT WAS BUILT
BETWEEN NINETEEN EIGHTY FOUR IN
1993.
>> IT'S ON W IT'S ON THE WEST
SIDE OF SIXTH STREET SOUTH
OF WEST JEFFERSON AND NORTH
OF WEST MADISON AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING APPROVAL
TO ALTER THE NONCONTRIBUTING
GARAGE BY ADDING A SECOND STORY
AND A TWO STORY ADDITION.
ALL RIGHT.
RUNNING THROUGH THE PHOTOS THIS
IS THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
LOOKING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY.
GET A LOT OF PERSPECTIVES HERE
DOWN THE DRIVEWAY.
SO THE PROPOSAL IS TO ADD A
SECOND STORY TO THIS EXISTING
GARAGE AND TO ADD ANOTHER
ADDITION ON THE SIDE THAT SET
BACK A LITTLE BIT THAT WRAPS
AROUND THE BACK.
YOU'LL SEE THOSE DRAWINGS IN A
MOMENT.
YOU CAN SEE THE GARAGE IS
PRETTY CLOSE TO THE HOUSE HERE.
THE NUMBER IS IN THE STAFF
REPORT HERE SOMEWHERE.
>> I'LL GET TO IT IN A SEC AND
A IT WAS IT WAS BUILT IN THE
EIGHTIES.
YOU KNOW, IT'S A TYPICAL
EIGHTIES GARAGE.
I'VE ALWAYS THOUGHT IT WAS
INTERESTING THAT SOMEONE WENT
TO THE THE TROUBLE TO PUT A
LITTLE OCTAGONAL WINDOW ABOVE A
BIG WINDOW BUT IT'S ALL GOOD.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
SOME OF YOU WILL RECALL THAT
THIS HOUSE HAS HAD MANY
ADDITIONS ON THE BACK AND THE
THE CURRENT APPLICANT AND THE
HOMEOWNERS WENT THROUGH SOME
GREAT EFFORTS A FEW YEARS AGO
TO SORT OF MAKE IT ALL WORK
BETTER.
IT WAS A MISHMASH OF ADDITIONS
AND THEY CHANGED SOME ROOFLINES
AND TIED SOME THINGS TOGETHER
THAT IT LOOKS A LITTLE MORE
UNIFIED AND THEN THEY PUT A
SMALL ADDITION ON THE BACK AND
THE SCREEN PORCH ALSO ON THE
BACK YOU CAN SEE THE GARAGE
OVER HERE ON THE LEFT THERE'S A
BIG TREE HERE IN THE BACK.
I WAS NOT ABLE TO ATTEND THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE VISIT SO I
WOULD WHEN IT'S HIS TURN TO
TALK, I'M GOING TO ASK HIM
WHETHER THERE'S A TREE IN THE
BACK, WHETHER IT'S GOING TO
STAY OR NOT BEHIND THE GARAGE.
>> WE'LL GET TO THAT.
THESE ARE JUST SOME VIEWS.
THIS IS LOOKING NORTH AT THE
NEIGHBOR'S PROPERTY.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THEY'VE GOT A
GARAGE OVER THERE AND THIS IS
THE BACK OF THE GARAGE.
>> NOT MUCH GOING ON THERE AND
THIS IS LOOKING TO THE SOUTH.
>> I BELIEVE THAT THIS IS THE
OTHER NEIGHBOR'S GARAGE IN THE
BACK.
OK, SO EXISTING GARAGE IS HERE.
IT IS I BELIEVE WAS IT LIKE A
NINETEEN OR EIGHTEEN BY TWENTY
TWO FOOT FOOTPRINT PROPOSED
EDITION IS ON THE BACK.
>> IT'LL MAKE MORE SENSE TO OUR
VIEWING AUDIENCE ONCE WE GET TO
THE ELEVATIONS BUT DRIVEWAYS
PROPOSED TO STAY HERE IS THE
THE MAIN FLOOR FLOOR PLAN
GARAGE IS STAYING THERE STILL A
GARAGE.
WE'VE GOT A LITTLE PORCH ON THE
SIDE WITH AN ENTRY FOR AND FOR
AND FOR EIGHTY YOU THESE STAIRS
GO UPSTAIRS TO THE SUCCESSOR
DWELLING UNIT THAT'S A LITTLE
APARTMENT WITH A LIVING AREA
AND A MURPHY BED, A KITCHEN AND
A BATH AND ON THE BACK OF THE
GARAGE YOU'D HAVE TO GO THROUGH
THE GARAGE TO GET TO IT IT
LOOKS LIKE IS A LITTLE STUDIO
ROOM THAT'S NOT PART OF THE
ADA.
>> IT'S COMPLETELY SEPARATE
THEM.
>> HERE'S A RENDERING OF WHAT
THE MODIFIED GARAGE WOULD LOOK
LIKE.
>> IT'S GOT SOME NEW GARAGE
DOORS, ALL THE WINDOWS ON THE
NEW STRUCTURE I BELIEVE OUR
BASEMENT OR FIXED BUT THEIR
PROPORTIONS ARE APPROPRIATE FOR
THE THE VERTICAL YOU KNOW,
WINDOWS ON THE HOUSE HERE.
>> WE'RE LOOKING AT IT FROM THE
BACKYARD.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
ENTRY DOOR TO THE GARAGE, AN
ENTRY DOOR INTO THE APARTMENT
HERE.
SO THIS IS THE STAIRS THAT GO
UP.
THIS IS A WORKOUT ROOM DOWN
HERE AND THIS IS THE STAIRS
THAT GO UP TO THE APARTMENT.
ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS THE EXISTING FRONT
OF THE HOUSE.
IT'S GOT THIS IS THE FRONT
FRONT DOOR.
THIS IS THE AROUND THE CORNER
FRONT DOOR AND THIS IS THIS IS
THE SIDE DOOR THAT'S PUSHED
BACK HARD TO TELL FROM THIS
PERSPECTIVE BUT IT'S NOT LIKE
THERE ARE THREE DOORS ALL IN
THE SAME LINE THERE.
AND HERE'S THE PROPOSED AIDO
GARAGE NEXT TO IT YOU CAN SEE
THAT THE PROPOSED RIDGE HEIGHT
MATCHES THAT OF ONE OF THE
ADDITIONS.
>> IT'S A LITTLE BIT LOWER THAN
THE ROOF RIDGE OF THE HOUSE
WHICH IS APPROPRIATE.
I'M NOT SURE WHAT THE THE ROOF
PITCH IS BUT THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES SAY IT SHOULD BE IT
SHOULD MATCH WHAT'S ON THE
HOUSE AND I'VE USED THE HOUSE
OBVIOUSLY THE HOUSE HAS A FEW
GOING ON BUT THIS IS THE MAIN
ONE.
IT MIGHT BE A LITTLE BIT
SHALLOWER THAN THE MAIN HOUSE
BUT I DO THINK THAT IT'S STILL
COMPATIBLE.
>> IT'S CLOSE THE THIS IS THE
THIS IS THE FRONT ELEVATION THE
EAST FACING ELEVATION OF JUST
THE GARAGE THE WITHOUT THE
HOUSE IN THE WAY YOU CAN SEE
HERE THAT THAT PORTION THIS IS
THE NEW FRONT DOOR TO THE AIDOO
A PORTION OF THE BUILDING IS
BEHIND THE HOUSE.
THERE IS VERY, VERY THOROUGH
DESCRIPTION OF THE MATERIALS IN
THE PACKAGE.
I DIDN'T INCLUDE ALL OF THEM
HERE I DON'T THINK BUT IT IS
FIBER CEMENT LAB SIDING WITH A
FOUR INCH EXPOSURE THAT'S YOU
KNOW, CERTAINLY COMPATIBLE WITH
WHAT'S THE MAIN HOUSE.
THE ALL THE TRIM DIMENSIONS ARE
SLIGHTLY VARIED FROM THE HOUSE
WHICH IS APPRECIATED.
THIS IS THE CURRENT WEST
ELEVATION.
>> THIS IS THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE GARAGE
AND THIS IS THE NEW TWO STOREY
THIS IS SECOND STORY ON THE
GARAGE.
>> THIS IS THE TWO STORIES
ADDED BEHIND THEM NOW WE ARE ON
THE SOUTH ELEVATION.
THIS IS THE SIDE THAT'S NOT BY
THE DRIVEWAY AND THIS IS THE
NEW STRUCTURE IN THE BACKYARD.
FINALLY WE HAVE THE NORTH
ELEVATION WHICH IS THE DRIVEWAY
SIDE AND THE NEW STRUCTURE.
THESE WERE SOME OF THE THE
DOORS THAT ARE NON ORIGINAL NON
HISTORIC IN THE MAIN HOUSE AND
THE ONE ON THE YOU WOULD MATCH
THEM THE TRIM DIMENSIONS I
MENTIONED WINDOWS ARE ALL
SUPPOSED TO BE CLAD FROM THE
INTERIOR STANDARDS THAT MOST
APPLY NO TO SAYS THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF HISTORIC MATERIALS
OR ALTERATION FEATURES AND
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE A
PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
>> NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSIVE SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
>> NO TURNS AS NEW ADDITIONS
AND ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY AND
ITS ENVIRONMENT WOULD BE
UNIMPAIRED FROM THE INTERIOR'S
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITES
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN NEW
EXTERIOR ADDITIONS TO HISTORIC
BUILDINGS OR ADJACENT NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE WHICH
PRESERVE THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDING
OUR BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACE.
I'M
SWITCH OVER HERE TO MY
STAFF REPORT.
>> YEAH ACTUALLY I'M GOING TO
COME BACK TO THAT.
ALSO RECOMMENDED FOR BUILDING
SITE IS TO RETAIN THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS,
LANDSCAPED FEATURES AND OPEN
SPACE NOT RECOMMENDED AS
INTRODUCING NEW CONSTRUCTION
ONTO THE BUILDING SITE WHICH IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS
OF SIZE, SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS, COLOR AND TEXTURE OR
WHICH DESTROYS HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SITE ALSO
RECOMMENDED IS INTRODUCING A
NEW BUILDING OUR SITE FEATURE
THAT IS OUT OF SCALE OR OF AN
OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE DESIGN
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION IN
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT THAT IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE OR THAT
DESTROYS HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
WITHIN THE SETTING FROM THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR NEW RESIDENTIAL
ACCESSORIES STRUCTURES IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND OPEN SPACES.
>> IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO
LOCATE SHEDS AND GARAGES IN THE
REAR YARD.
IT IS APPROPRIATE TO USE
EXTERIOR WALL AND ROOF
MATERIALS THAT ARE COMPATIBLE
WITH HISTORIC MATERIALS ON THE
MAIN STRUCTURE AND IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IT'S APPROPRIATE
TO USE A ROOF SHAPE AND A PITCH
THAT REPLICATES THE SHAPE AND
PITCH OF THE ROOF OF THE MAIN
STRUCTURE AND IT'S APPROPRIATE
TO USE WINDOWS AND DOORS THAT
ARE COMPATIBLE IN PROPORTION
AND STYLE TO THE MAIN STRUCTURE
AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
INTRODUCE NEW STRUCTURES OR
SITE FEATURES THAT ARE OUT
OF SCALE WITH THE PROPERTY OR
THE DISTRICT OR OTHERWISE
INAPPROPRIATE.
>> RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO ZOOM BACK UP HERE
A SEC.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S SO THE THE GARAGE IS
CURRENTLY FOUR HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET.
THIS IS PRETTY TYPICALLY WHAT I
RECOMMEND IS A MAXIMUM SIZE FOR
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES ON OLD
WEST SIDE LOT THIS IS A FULL
SIZED OLD WEST SIDE LOT WHICH
IS WHICH IS GREAT.
THERE ARE AROUND SIXTY FIVE BY
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY.
THIS IS A GOOD EXAMPLE OF ONE.
A LOT OF THEM HAVE BEEN DIVIDED
AND SO YOU'LL GET TWO HOUSES ON
HALF EACH HALF ONE ON EACH HALF
OF THE HISTORIC LOT BUT NOT
THIS ONE.
THE ADDITION HAS A THREE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FOUR SQUARE
FOOT FOOTPRINT ON THE SOUTH
SIDE AND IT WOULD ALL RESULT IN
A FOURTEEN HUNDRED AND SIXTY
SIX SQUARE FOOT STRUCTURE WHICH
IS JUST A HAIR SMALLER THAN THE
ORIGINAL SIZE OF THE HOUSE.
SO IT IS LIKE PUTTING A
STRUCTURE THE SIZE OF A TYPICAL
SMALL OLD WEST SIZED HOUSE IN
THE BACKYARD THE HEIGHT A TALL
BUT APPROPRIATE BECAUSE IT IS
LOWER ON THE RIDGE OF THE
HISTORIC HOUSE.
I TALKED ABOUT MATERIALS A
LITTLE BIT.
THE MATERIALS ARE ALL VERY
COMPATIBLE.
THE DIMENSIONS OF THEM ARE
I'M FINE WITH THE CASEMENT
COMPATIBLE.
WINDOWS BECAUSE THIS WOULD BE A
I'M FINE WITH THE CASEMENT
MODERN STRUCTURE I THREW IN
WINDOWS BECAUSE THIS WOULD BE A
HERE.
MODERN STRUCTURE I THREW IN
IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
HERE.
EACH LOT AND ITS STRUCTURES AND
IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
FEATURES ARE TREATED AS UNIQUE
EACH LOT AND ITS STRUCTURES AND
BECAUSE THEY ARE AND STRUCTURES
FEATURES ARE TREATED AS UNIQUE
APPROVED BY THE HGC DO NOT SET
BECAUSE THEY ARE AND STRUCTURES
A PRECEDENT FOR OTHER
APPROVED BY THE HGC DO NOT SET
PROPERTIES IN THE FUTURE.
A PRECEDENT FOR OTHER
THIS IS FOR YOU ALL TO KEEP IN
PROPERTIES IN THE FUTURE.
MIND BOTH LOOKING AT PAST
THIS IS FOR YOU ALL TO KEEP IN
PROJECTS AND AFTER LOOKING AT
MIND BOTH LOOKING AT PAST
THIS PROJECT YOU IN THE FUTURE
PROJECTS AND AFTER LOOKING AT
EACH APPLICATION IS WEIGHED
THIS PROJECT YOU IN THE FUTURE
AGAINST THE STANDARDS AND
EACH APPLICATION IS WEIGHED
GUIDELINES ON ITS OWN MERITS.
AGAINST THE STANDARDS AND
STAFF THINKS THAT THE STRUCTURE
GUIDELINES ON ITS OWN MERITS.
IS TOO LARGE AND TOO CLOSE TO
STAFF THINKS THAT THE STRUCTURE
THE HOUSE AND RECOMMENDED TO
IS TOO LARGE AND TOO CLOSE TO
THE APPLICANT THAT THEY SHRINK
THE HOUSE AND RECOMMENDED TO
THE FOOTPRINT AND HEIGHT AND
THE APPLICANT THAT THEY SHRINK
PUSH THE STRUCTURE TOWARD THE
THE FOOTPRINT AND HEIGHT AND
REAR OF THE LOT TO GET MORE
PUSH THE STRUCTURE TOWARD THE
DISTANCE BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND
REAR OF THE LOT TO GET MORE
THE GARAGE.
DISTANCE BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND
>> THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS I'M
THE GARAGE.
MAINLY CONCERNED ABOUT IS THIS
>> THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS I'M
DISTANCE RIGHT HERE.
MAINLY CONCERNED ABOUT IS THIS
>> IT'S IT'S PRETTY DARN CLOSE
DISTANCE RIGHT HERE.
I BELIEVE IT'S LIKE EIGHT OR
>> IT'S IT'S PRETTY DARN CLOSE
TEN FEET AND WHEN YOU'RE MAKING
I BELIEVE IT'S LIKE EIGHT OR
IT TALLER IT'S IT'S ONLY
TEN FEET AND WHEN YOU'RE MAKING
COMPETING MORE HERE WITH THE
IT TALLER IT'S IT'S ONLY
HOUSE AND IT'S GOING TO CALL
COMPETING MORE HERE WITH THE
MORE ATTENTION TO ITSELF.
HOUSE AND IT'S GOING TO CALL
I HAVE EVEN I REALLY HAVE
MORE ATTENTION TO ITSELF.
CONCERNS ABOUT THIS FOR YOU.
I HAVE EVEN I REALLY HAVE
>> I APPRECIATE THAT THE THE
CONCERNS ABOUT THIS FOR YOU.
SLOPED ROOF HERE IS OVER THE
>> I APPRECIATE THAT THE THE
STAIRCASE AND TO GET UPSTAIRS
SLOPED ROOF HERE IS OVER THE
AND THAT'S A LITTLE BIT LOWER.
STAIRCASE AND TO GET UPSTAIRS
>> BUT THE THE BUILDING IS JUST
AND THAT'S A LITTLE BIT LOWER.
IT'S PRETTY MASSIVE TO PUT IN
>> BUT THE THE BUILDING IS JUST
YOUR BACKYARD.
IT'S PRETTY MASSIVE TO PUT IN
>> IT'S BIGGER THAN ANY BARN
YOUR BACKYARD.
WOULD HAVE BEEN.
>> IT'S BIGGER THAN ANY BARN
NOW I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THAT.
WOULD HAVE BEEN.
I SHOULDN'T SAY THAT BUT THIS
NOW I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THAT.
LOT WE DON'T KNOW OF ANY BARN
I SHOULDN'T SAY THAT BUT THIS
OR OTHER STRUCTURE THAT IT HAD
LOT WE DON'T KNOW OF ANY BARN
HISTORICALLY AND EVEN IF IT
OR OTHER STRUCTURE THAT IT HAD
HASN'T, IT PROBABLY WOULD HAVE
HISTORICALLY AND EVEN IF IT
BEEN PUSHED BACK FARTHER AND
HASN'T, IT PROBABLY WOULD HAVE
THESE DRAWINGS ARE KIND
BEEN PUSHED BACK FARTHER AND
OF UNFAIR BECAUSE THIS GARAGE
THESE DRAWINGS ARE KIND
IS IS I DON'T KNOW IT'S
OF UNFAIR BECAUSE THIS GARAGE
PROBABLY 40 FEET FROM THE ROAD
IS IS I DON'T KNOW IT'S
OR SOMETHING.
PROBABLY 40 FEET FROM THE ROAD
SO TAKE THAT WITH A GRAIN
OR SOMETHING.
OF SALT.
SO TAKE THAT WITH A GRAIN
SO IT'S GOOD THAT THESE
OF SALT.
RENDERINGS ARE PROVIDED BECAUSE
SO IT'S GOOD THAT THESE
THAT'S THAT'S MUCH MORE HELPFUL
RENDERINGS ARE PROVIDED BECAUSE
.
THAT'S THAT'S MUCH MORE HELPFUL
>> BUT I DO WORRY ABOUT THE
.
OVERWHELMING FEELING THAT THIS
>> BUT I DO WORRY ABOUT THE
HOUSE HAS A LOT GOING ON.
OVERWHELMING FEELING THAT THIS
>> IT WASN'T A VERY BIG HOUSE
HOUSE HAS A LOT GOING ON.
TO START WITH.
>> IT WASN'T A VERY BIG HOUSE
IT'S A LOT BIGGER NOW THAN IT
TO START WITH.
WAS HISTORICALLY AND NOW WE'RE
IT'S A LOT BIGGER NOW THAN IT
PUTTING ANOTHER BIG STRUCTURE
WAS HISTORICALLY AND NOW WE'RE
RIGHT ALONGSIDE OF IT.
PUTTING ANOTHER BIG STRUCTURE
IT WILL DEFINITELY CHANGE THE
RIGHT ALONGSIDE OF IT.
FEEL OF THE BACKYARD BECAUSE
IT WILL DEFINITELY CHANGE THE
IT'LL FILL MORE OF IT.
FEEL OF THE BACKYARD BECAUSE
BUT AGAIN, THIS IS THIS IS A
IT'LL FILL MORE OF IT.
FULL SIZE CITY LOT SO I'M LESS
BUT AGAIN, THIS IS THIS IS A
CONCERNED ABOUT THAT.
FULL SIZE CITY LOT SO I'M LESS
I'M MORE CONCERNED ABOUT ITS
CONCERNED ABOUT THAT.
PROXIMITY TO THE HOUSE AND ITS
I'M MORE CONCERNED ABOUT ITS
OVERALL MASS.
PROXIMITY TO THE HOUSE AND ITS
SO STAFF DOES NOT BELIEVE THAT
OVERALL MASS.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
SO STAFF DOES NOT BELIEVE THAT
MACING SIZE AND SCALE OF THE
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
HISTORIC HOUSE AND THAT IT DOES
MACING SIZE AND SCALE OF THE
NOT MEET SECRETARY OF THE
HISTORIC HOUSE AND THAT IT DOES
INTERIOR STANDARD NINE.
NOT MEET SECRETARY OF THE
I THINK THAT'S MOST OF IT.
INTERIOR STANDARD NINE.
AND THEN I WENT THROUGH SOME
I THINK THAT'S MOST OF IT.
SOME INDIVIDUAL GUIDELINES THAT
AND THEN I WENT THROUGH SOME
I BELIEVE THAT IT DID NOT THAT
SOME INDIVIDUAL GUIDELINES THAT
IT WAS NOT COMPATIBLE WITH THAT
I BELIEVE THAT IT DID NOT THAT
IT WAS NOT IN KEEPING WITH AND
IT WAS NOT COMPATIBLE WITH THAT
SO STAFF BELIEVES THAT THE NEW
IT WAS NOT IN KEEPING WITH AND
STRUCTURES OF SCALE THE
SO STAFF BELIEVES THAT THE NEW
PROPERTY AND SURROUNDING
STRUCTURES OF SCALE THE
PROPERTIES AND IS VISUALLY
PROPERTY AND SURROUNDING
INCOMPATIBLE BECAUSE OF TITANS
PROPERTIES AND IS VISUALLY
SIZE.
INCOMPATIBLE BECAUSE OF TITANS
>> THANK YOU.
SIZE.
>> CAN YOU COMMENT ON THAT THAT
>> THANK YOU.
CORNER OF THAT BACK CORNER
>> CAN YOU COMMENT ON THAT THAT
OF THE HOUSE AND IS THAT IN
CORNER OF THAT BACK CORNER
ADDITION THAT'S IS JUST IS
OF THE HOUSE AND IS THAT IN
STATE IS THAT AN ORIGINAL
ADDITION THAT'S IS JUST IS
HISTORIC PART OF THE HOUSE OR
STATE IS THAT AN ORIGINAL
IS THAT AN ADDITION BECAUSE
HISTORIC PART OF THE HOUSE OR
IT'S A LITTLE CONFUSING.
IS THAT AN ADDITION BECAUSE
>> THERE'S BEEN SO MANY
IT'S A LITTLE CONFUSING.
ADDITIONS IN THE BACK.
>> THERE'S BEEN SO MANY
YEAH, THERE WAS AN ADDITION
ADDITIONS IN THE BACK.
BACK THERE.
YEAH, THERE WAS AN ADDITION
THERE WAS A ONE AND A HALF
BACK THERE.
STOREY ADDITION.
THERE WAS A ONE AND A HALF
LET ME SEE IF I CAN.
STOREY ADDITION.
THIS PART OF THE HOUSE IS
LET ME SEE IF I CAN.
ORIGINAL.
THIS PART OF THE HOUSE IS
THANK YOU.
ORIGINAL.
THIS DORMER WAS ADDED AT SOME
THANK YOU.
POINT I THINK THAT WAS ALSO
THIS DORMER WAS ADDED AT SOME
THERE WAS A LOT OF WORK DONE IN
POINT I THINK THAT WAS ALSO
THIS HOUSE IN THE EIGHTIES.
THERE WAS A LOT OF WORK DONE IN
I BELIEVE THAT THAT WAS PART
THIS HOUSE IN THE EIGHTIES.
OF IT.
I BELIEVE THAT THAT WAS PART
SO THIS SIDE PORCH WAS BUILT
OF IT.
DURING THE PERIOD
SO THIS SIDE PORCH WAS BUILT
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
DURING THE PERIOD
YOU CAN SEE IT ON THE NINETEEN
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
FORTY SEVEN AERIAL THAT'S IN
YOU CAN SEE IT ON THE NINETEEN
THE PACKET.
FORTY SEVEN AERIAL THAT'S IN
SORRY I DON'T HAVE THAT IN THE
THE PACKET.
SLIDESHOW.
SORRY I DON'T HAVE THAT IN THE
MOST OF THE ADDITIONS WERE ON
SLIDESHOW.
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE HOUSE
MOST OF THE ADDITIONS WERE ON
THIS OVER HERE WAS A NARROW
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE HOUSE
SINGLE STORY AND THEN IT GOT
THIS OVER HERE WAS A NARROW
BUMPED TO THE SIDE AND THEN IT
SINGLE STORY AND THEN IT GOT
GOT BUMPED UP SO YEAH THANK YOU
BUMPED TO THE SIDE AND THEN IT
VERY MUCH.
GOT BUMPED UP SO YEAH THANK YOU
THAT'S IT FROM STAFF OK THANK
VERY MUCH.
YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT.
THAT'S IT FROM STAFF OK THANK
>> SO WE'LL MOVE ON NOW TO THE
YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT.
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
>> SO WE'LL MOVE ON NOW TO THE
COMMISSIONER NESBITT AND MYSELF
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
ARE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
COMMISSIONER NESBITT AND MYSELF
>> SO COMMISSIONER ELIZABETH,
ARE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
DO YOU WANT TO GIVE YOUR REPORT
>> SO COMMISSIONER ELIZABETH,
PLEASE?
DO YOU WANT TO GIVE YOUR REPORT
>> YEAH, THANK YOU.
PLEASE?
>> I I THINK BEING ON SITE AND
>> YEAH, THANK YOU.
LOOKING AT WHAT THEY HAVE
>> I I THINK BEING ON SITE AND
PROPOSED I HAD SIMILAR CONCERNS
LOOKING AT WHAT THEY HAVE
TO THE STAFF FINDING IN REGARDS
PROPOSED I HAD SIMILAR CONCERNS
OF HOW IT'S GOING TO MAINTAIN
TO THE STAFF FINDING IN REGARDS
SOME OF THE OPEN SPACE AND SORT
OF HOW IT'S GOING TO MAINTAIN
OF THAT VIEW THROUGH AND TO THE
SOME OF THE OPEN SPACE AND SORT
BACKYARD AND A LITTLE TO WORRY
OF THAT VIEW THROUGH AND TO THE
ABOUT THE THE SIZE AND THE
BACKYARD AND A LITTLE TO WORRY
MASSING AND THEN IT SORT
ABOUT THE THE SIZE AND THE
BECOMES ALMOST LIKE A BLOCKADE
MASSING AND THEN IT SORT
OF A BUILDING AND ROOFLINES
BECOMES ALMOST LIKE A BLOCKADE
THAT FEELS OUT OF CHARACTER
OF A BUILDING AND ROOFLINES
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
THAT FEELS OUT OF CHARACTER
WHAT'S THERE AND THAT IS IS A
WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
PRETTY IMPOSING ADDITION AND AS
WHAT'S THERE AND THAT IS IS A
AS WAS REPORTED IN THE STAFF
PRETTY IMPOSING ADDITION AND AS
FINDING PRETTY CLOSE TO THE
AS WAS REPORTED IN THE STAFF
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE SO THAT
FINDING PRETTY CLOSE TO THE
THAT WAS MY KIND OF MAIN
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE SO THAT
CONCERN.
THAT WAS MY KIND OF MAIN
I DID WONDER ABOUT ONE OF THE
CONCERN.
TREES HAVING TO MAYBE GO THE
I DID WONDER ABOUT ONE OF THE
MATURE TREE IN THE IN THE
TREES HAVING TO MAYBE GO THE
BACKYARD.
MATURE TREE IN THE IN THE
BUT I FEEL LIKE THAT THAT MAY
BACKYARD.
GO NO MATTER WHAT CHANGES
BUT I FEEL LIKE THAT THAT MAY
HAPPEN TO THAT PROPOSAL.
GO NO MATTER WHAT CHANGES
>> BUT I THINK THE MAIN THING
HAPPEN TO THAT PROPOSAL.
IS WAS THE WAS MAINTAINING THAT
>> BUT I THINK THE MAIN THING
KIND OF OPEN SPACE AND THE
IS WAS THE WAS MAINTAINING THAT
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS
KIND OF OPEN SPACE AND THE
ON THE PROPERTY THAT IS
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS
CHARACTERISTIC OF THE
ON THE PROPERTY THAT IS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
CHARACTERISTIC OF THE
>> THAT WAS MY OVERALL
NEIGHBORHOOD.
IMPRESSION.
>> THAT WAS MY OVERALL
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IMPRESSION.
I I WILL ADD THAT YOU FROM THE
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SIDEWALK, THE GARAGE IT'S NOT
I I WILL ADD THAT YOU FROM THE
THE FURTHEST GARAGE BACK ON A
SIDEWALK, THE GARAGE IT'S NOT
LOT YOU'VE EVER SEEN BUT IT IS
THE FURTHEST GARAGE BACK ON A
I THINK IT'S ACCORDING TO THE
LOT YOU'VE EVER SEEN BUT IT IS
SITE PLAN IT'S MORE THAN
I THINK IT'S ACCORDING TO THE
HALFWAY BACK.
SITE PLAN IT'S MORE THAN
>> IT FEELS BACK YOU KNOW,
HALFWAY BACK.
BEHIND THE HOUSE FOR SURE.
>> IT FEELS BACK YOU KNOW,
SO THERE IS THAT SO IT MUST BE
BEHIND THE HOUSE FOR SURE.
LIKE SIXTY FIVE PROBABLY AROUND
SO THERE IS THAT SO IT MUST BE
70 FEET FROM THE SIDEWALK.
LIKE SIXTY FIVE PROBABLY AROUND
IT LOOKS LIKE.
70 FEET FROM THE SIDEWALK.
RIGHT.
IT LOOKS LIKE.
I MEAN THERE'S NO DIMENSION
RIGHT.
THERE BUT IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S AT
I MEAN THERE'S NO DIMENSION
LEAST FURTHER THAN HALFWAY BACK
THERE BUT IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S AT
ON THE ONE HUNDRED THIRTY LOT
LEAST FURTHER THAN HALFWAY BACK
SIDE.
ON THE ONE HUNDRED THIRTY LOT
>> SO ANYWAY IT DOES FEEL LIKE
SIDE.
THE GARAGE IS BACK AWAY FROM
>> SO ANYWAY IT DOES FEEL LIKE
THE SIDEWALK.
THE GARAGE IS BACK AWAY FROM
IT FEELS LIKE IT'S BEHIND THE
THE SIDEWALK.
HOUSE.
IT FEELS LIKE IT'S BEHIND THE
IT DEFINITELY FEELS CLOSE TO
HOUSE.
THE HOUSE ALSO CLOSE TO THAT
IT DEFINITELY FEELS CLOSE TO
BACK CORNER.
THE HOUSE ALSO CLOSE TO THAT
SO BOTH OF THOSE THINGS ARE
BACK CORNER.
TRUE IF YOU LOOK KIND OF TO
SO BOTH OF THOSE THINGS ARE
EACH SIDE THERE'S THERE'S KIND
TRUE IF YOU LOOK KIND OF TO
OF A VARIETY OF ACCESSORY
EACH SIDE THERE'S THERE'S KIND
STRUCTURES LIKE AROUND ON SIXTH
OF A VARIETY OF ACCESSORY
STREET KIND OF ALL OVER THE
STRUCTURES LIKE AROUND ON SIXTH
PLACE THERE DOES HAPPEN TO BE
STREET KIND OF ALL OVER THE
AN ENORMOUS ACCESSORY STRUCTURE
PLACE THERE DOES HAPPEN TO BE
THAT WAS PROBABLY BUILT OUTSIDE
AN ENORMOUS ACCESSORY STRUCTURE
OF THE CURRENT REGULATIONS
THAT WAS PROBABLY BUILT OUTSIDE
RIGHT NEXT DOOR.
OF THE CURRENT REGULATIONS
SO I REALLY CAN UNDERSTAND THE
RIGHT NEXT DOOR.
HOMEOWNER PROBABLY LOOKING AT
SO I REALLY CAN UNDERSTAND THE
THAT EVERY DAY AND THINKING I
HOMEOWNER PROBABLY LOOKING AT
WANT THAT BECAUSE IT LOOKS
THAT EVERY DAY AND THINKING I
AMAZING.
WANT THAT BECAUSE IT LOOKS
>> SO THERE IS THAT AND THAT'S
AMAZING.
THERE I MEAN THAT'S PART OF THE
>> SO THERE IS THAT AND THAT'S
CONTEXT AND THEN NEXT DOOR, YOU
THERE I MEAN THAT'S PART OF THE
KNOW, THERE'S JUST A KIND
CONTEXT AND THEN NEXT DOOR, YOU
LOOKED LIKE A CONTRIBUTING
KNOW, THERE'S JUST A KIND
MAYBE OR YOU KNOW, SIMILAR KIND
LOOKED LIKE A CONTRIBUTING
OF ACCESSORY STRUCTURE RIGHT
MAYBE OR YOU KNOW, SIMILAR KIND
ACROSS A PROPERTY LINE FROM
OF ACCESSORY STRUCTURE RIGHT
THIS PROPERTY LINE AND AND THAT
ACROSS A PROPERTY LINE FROM
IS ALSO IN A KIND OF A SIMILAR
THIS PROPERTY LINE AND AND THAT
LOCATION OR EVEN PUSHED A
IS ALSO IN A KIND OF A SIMILAR
LITTLE BIT FAR BACK.
LOCATION OR EVEN PUSHED A
>> SO IF YOU THINK ABOUT THAT
LITTLE BIT FAR BACK.
NEIGHBOR WHO'S RIGHT ACROSS THE
>> SO IF YOU THINK ABOUT THAT
FENCE THERE, THIS IS GOING TO
NEIGHBOR WHO'S RIGHT ACROSS THE
BE SOME BIG IMPOSING THING BUT
FENCE THERE, THIS IS GOING TO
IT'S THEIR GARAGE IS RIGHT
BE SOME BIG IMPOSING THING BUT
THERE SO I DON'T THINK IT'S
IT'S THEIR GARAGE IS RIGHT
GOING TO HAVE A HUGE IMPACT
REALLY ON EITHER NEIGHBOR.
IT CERTAINLY WILL CHANGE THE
VIEWS IN THE BACK OF THE YOU
KNOW, IN THE BACK YARD BECAUSE
IT'S A NEW TWO STOREY STRUCTURE
BUT IN TERMS OF LIKE LOOMING
OVER SOME OTHER STRUCTURE LIKE
THE PROPERTY LINE, IT DOESN'T
SEEM LIKE THERE'S AN ISSUE
THERE.
YEAH.
SO THERE YOU CAN SEE THE GARAGE
AND THEN THE NEXT SLIDE THE
PREVIOUS ONE I THINK HAD A VIEW
OF A OR TWO BACK MAYBE HAD A
VIEW OF THE OTHER THAT JUST SAW
IT SO IT WAS EITHER TO A HEAD
OR TWO BEHIND.
YEAH RIGHT THERE THERE'S THE
TWO STOREY THAT'S THAT'S YOU
KNOW ACROSS THE PROPERTY LINE
AND THEN PUSH TO THE OTHER YOU
KNOW, FURTHER SOUTH PROPERTY
LINE.
>> SO THAT'S QUITE A WAYS AWAY
BUT IT'S THERE AND YEAH, THAT
TREE THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT
RIGHT THERE IN THE FOREGROUND
THAT THAT'S THAT'S RIGHT BEHIND
THE GARAGE.
SO CERTAINLY A HUGE CHUNK
OF THE ROOTS OF THAT TREE WILL
BE WILL BE CUT INTO FOR THIS
PROPOSAL.
OBVIOUSLY IF YOU PUSH THAT IF
YOU PUSH THE PROPOSAL FURTHER
BACK THAN THE TREE IS TOTALLY
GONE.
>> SO THAT'S SOMETHING TO NOTE
.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THAT'S THE REPORT WILL NOW
GO ON THE APPLICANT
PRESENTATION.
SO STEVE, WOULD YOU PLEASE COME
FORWARD AT THIS TIME STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES TO
RESPOND TO WHAT YOU'VE HEARD
AND GIVE US YOUR PRESENTATION.
>> MY NAME IS STEVEN VARNUM.
I'M HERE ON BEHALF OF DRAFT
DESIGN BUILD AND THE HOMEOWNERS
.
MY ADDRESS IS ONE FIVE NINE TO
PIKE STREET IN HASLET, MICHIGAN
FOUR EIGHT EIGHT FOUR ZERO.
SO THANK YOU JILL SARAH DAVID
FOR YOUR REPORTS.
YOU KNOW, JILL, I FEEL LIKE
YOU'VE DONE A PRETTY GOOD JOB
OF SORT OF GOING THROUGH AND
YOU KIND OF PRESENTING THE
HISTORY OF THIS HOUSE TO SOME
DEGREE AND AS YOU NOTED, THIS
IS A PROPERTY AND A SET
OF HOMEOWNERS THAT WE'VE SORT
OF WORKED WITH QUITE BIT IN THE
LAST SEVERAL YEARS TO RENOVATE
THIS PROPERTY RENT.
YOU KNOW, WE DID A YOU KNOW, A
WHOLE HOUSE RENOVATION.
I MEAN WE GUTTED THAT ENTIRE
INTERIOR FOR THEM.
WHAT I THINK IT WAS YOU SAID
FIVE YEARS AGO I GUESS IN ORDER
TO SORT OF , YOU KNOW, MAKE IT
A LITTLE BIT MORE OF A LIVABLE
SPACE FOR THEM.
YOU KNOW, THE THINGS THAT ARE
BEING PRESENTED HERE WERE WERE
THINGS THAT WERE, YOU KNOW,
PART OF THE PROGRAM THEN WHICH
JUST COULDN'T REALISTICALLY BE
FIT, YOU KNOW, WITHIN THE
BOUNDARIES OF THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE.
RIGHT.
LIKE THERE ARE THERE ARE
RESTRICTIONS, AS YOU KNOW, TO
HOW MUCH SQUARE FOOTAGE YOU CAN
ADD TO A CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE
.
AND YOU KNOW, THERE JUST YOU
KNOW, THERE SIMPLY WASN'T ANY
PRACTICAL WAY TO GET, YOU KNOW,
MOTHER IN LAW SUITE, YOU KNOW,
AIDO AND AN EXERCISE SPACE IN
THEM.
YOU KNOW, WITHIN THE ENVELOPE
OF THE ORIGINAL BUILDING HERE.
YOU KNOW, I GUESS I CAN'T
REALLY SAY WHETHER OR NOT, YOU
KNOW, THERE'S AN APPROPRIATE
SCALE HERE OR NOT.
I MEAN I CAN SAY THAT WE
CERTAINLY HAVE DONE OUR BEST TO
MINIMIZE THE FOOTPRINT AS MUCH
AS WE CAN FROM A DESIGN
STANDPOINT TO MEET THE YOU
KNOW, OUR CLIENTS PROGRAM HERE
.
BUT WE CERTAINLY WEREN'T TRYING
TO MAXIMIZE ANYTHING.
THE EU ITSELF IS, YOU KNOW,
SEVEN HUNDRED SQUARE FEET WHICH
IS, YOU KNOW, SMALL OR YOU
KNOW, FOR A LOT THIS SIZE
ZONING WOULD ALLOW US TO BUILD
SOMETHING, YOU KNOW, ANOTHER
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT LARGER THAN
THAN WHAT WE HAVE HERE AND THE
WORKOUT STUDIO ON THE MAIN
LEVEL YOU KNOW, YOU CAN SEE,
YOU KNOW, WHETHER WHETHER IT'S
NECESSARY OR NOT.
YOU KNOW, THESE ARE THE THINGS
THAT YOU CAN SEE ON THE PLAN
WHICH WHICH THEY WOULD LIKE TO
SEE IN THAT SPACE AND IT'S IT'S
TIGHT, YOU KNOW, EVEN EVEN AS
DRAWN SO YOU KNOW, IN TERMS
OF SORT OF SHRINKING THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE OF THE PLAN DOWN HERE,
I DON'T KNOW HOW WELL YOU KNOW,
WE REALLY COULD I MEAN WHEN WE
GOT THE NOTES BACK FROM YOU,
YOU KNOW, WE SORT OF DID YOU
KNOW, DID SORT OF A CRASH
COURSE OVER THE NEXT COUPLE
OF DAYS AND JUST KIND OF STAYED
IN COMMUNICATION WITH OUR
CLIENTS.
WE HAD I GUESS THREE MEETINGS
THROUGHOUT THE COURSE OF THAT
KIND OF FORTY NINE HOUR PERIOD
AND WE LOOKED AT FIVE DIFFERENT
VERSIONS, YOU KNOW, AND WE
SHRUNK THINGS DOWN, YOU KNOW,
WE LOWERED THE ROOF HEIGHT A
BUNCH OF DIFFERENT WAYS.
WE SHRUNK THE FOOTPRINT DOWN A
BUNCH OF DIFFERENT WAYS AND
WHAT WE FOUND DURING THAT
EXERCISE WAS THAT YOU KNOW,
SCALING BACK ON THE ROOF, YOU
KNOW, NOT AS MUCH OF A
CHALLENGE BUT SCALING BACK ON
THE ON THE SQUARE FOOTAGE.
IT DIDN'T HAVE A MEANINGFUL
IMPACT ON SORT HOW MASSIVE THE
SPACE LOOKED.
YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY TO MAINTAIN
FUNCTIONALITY THERE WAS ONLY SO
MUCH WE COULD SHRINK.
RIGHT.
YOU KNOW, BUT EVEN THE AREAS
THAT WE COULD SHRINK DIDN'T
PRODUCE A NOTICEABLE DIFFERENCE
IN THE OVERALL LOOK AND FEEL.
YOU KNOW, AND I GUESS THAT WAS
WHY WE SORT OF DECIDED.
ALL RIGHT, WELL, LET'S JUST
HAVE THIS DISCUSSION WITH YOU
GUYS AND SEE, YOU KNOW, WHAT
ARE YOUR FEELINGS HERE?
WHAT CAN WE DO OR IS IT OR IS
THIS JUST NOT A PROGRAM THAT IS
POSSIBLE TO BUILD IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT?
I DON'T REALLY KNOW.
I MEAN I DO KNOW THAT YOU KNOW,
WHEN WE TRIED TO SHRINK IT DOWN
IT MADE IT MUCH LESS EFFECTIVE
FROM A FUNCTIONAL STANDPOINT
AND MAYBE WE DON'T GET
APPROVED.
BUT I THINK WE WANTED TO SORT
OF GET A BETTER UNDERSTANDING
FROM THE GROUP ABOUT SORT
OF WHERE YOU GUYS ARE COMING
FROM AND YOU KNOW WHAT THE SORT
OF BOUNDARIES THERE ARE.
YOU KNOW, I FEEL LIKE WE AS A
DESIGN TEAM AND AS A STAFF AND
EVEN ON BEHALF OF THE
HOMEOWNERS MAKE EVERY EFFORT WE
CAN TO SORT OF FOLLOW BEST
PRACTICES.
RIGHT.
AND WHEN THERE ARE SORT
OF PRESCRIPTIVE AREAS WITHIN
THAT CODE , WE ABSOLUTELY
FOLLOW THEM TO THE LETTER.
THIS IS AN AREA OF THE OF THE
CODE , NOT THE CODE .
I GUESS THE SORT OF GUIDELINES
THAT ARE MORE SUBJECTIVE.
RIGHT.
LIKE IN IT'S IN IT'S A MUCH
MORE DIFFICULT FOR US TO SORT
OF DETERMINED WHAT ARE THE
STANDARDS THAT WE SHOULD BE
FOLLOWING IN THIS PART OF OF
OF OF THE OF THE GUIDANCE.
SO I GUESS IF WE HAVE STRAYED
TOO FAR FROM WHAT THE GROUP
FEELS IS IS THE SORT
OF ACCEPTABLE STANDARD WITHIN
THAT PRACTICE.
I GUESS WE NEED MORE CLARITY ON
THAT.
I DON'T THINK I HAVE ANYTHING
ELSE TO SAY OR ANYTHING ELSE TO
ADD.
>> VERY GOOD.
WE MIGHT HAVE SOME QUESTIONS
FOR YOU.
SURE.
YEAH.
AS YOU WANT TO GO WITH SOME
QUESTIONS HERE, DOES ANYONE
HAVE A QUESTION AT THIS MOMENT
?
I DON'T KNOW WHERE IT LEADS US
BUT I'M JUST CURIOUS WHAT I'M
LOOKING AT THIS THE SORT OF THE
NESTING THE NESTING SQUARES
PATTERN THAT THAT THAT EXISTS
WITH THE Y IT'S OFFSET LIKE
THAT.
>> YEAH.
WHAT WAS THE WHAT WAS THE
DESIGN PURPOSE.
>> WELL THERE'S A COUPLE
OF MAIN IDEAS THERE.
ONE YOU KNOW WHAT WE DO HAVE A
SIDE YARD SET BACK THERE THAT
WE YOU KNOW, ARE TRYING TO SORT
OF RESPECT WHEN WE CAN
OBVIOUSLY PUSH WITHIN THAT AND
TO GO TO ZONING AND APPLY FOR A
VARIANCE THERE.
IT'S NOT QUITE STRAIGHT BUT YOU
KNOW, IT'LL HAVE TO BE OFFSET
EVEN EVEN AT ZONING.
WE WOULD HAVE TO STEP THAT BACK
A LITTLE BIT JUST BECAUSE THE
GARAGES AND EXACTLY PARALLEL.
RIGHT.
SO BUT YOU KNOW, JUST IN
LOOKING AT THE AT THE SORT
OF CIRCULATION ROUTES AND
EVERYTHING, YOU KNOW, WE FELT
LIKE SORT OF YOU KNOW, TALKING
TALKING AROUND THE CORNER HERE
AND GETTING THAT THE ENTRY
PORCH ALONG THE SIDE WAS JUST A
GOOD LOCATION FOR THAT.
RIGHT.
SO WE SORT OF WANTED TO WRAP
AROUND IT AND BRING IT FORWARD
THERE INSTEAD OF HAVING TO SORT
OF WALK ALL THE WAY AROUND AND
BACK AND THAT UP AND ALL THAT.
RIGHT.
SO YOU KNOW, IT COULD HAVE BEEN
HANDLED EITHER WAY REALLY.
RIGHT.
LIKE THAT THAT PARK COULD HAVE
BEEN WRAPPED AROUND THE BACK
AND PUSHED OVER.
NO, I SEE NO I DIDN'T NOTICE
THE SET BACK THE THE EXISTING
GARAGE IS OVER THERE AND THAT
WAS SOMETHING WE LOOKED AT, YOU
KNOW I MEAN OBVIOUSLY, YOU
KNOW, DOING SCHEMATIC DESIGN WE
EXPLORE A VARIETY OF APPROACHES
.
RIGHT.
THIS THIS WAS JUST THE ONE THAT
SEEMED LIKE IT IT IT FELT LIKE
IT FIT THE HOUSE BETTER THAN
SOME OF THE OTHER ONES AND JUST
FROM A FUNCTIONAL STANDPOINT
MADE THE MOST OUT.
RIGHT.
ANYTHING ELSE YOU KNOW?
>> OK, VERY GOOD.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
COME ON.
I THOUGHT I HEARD ONE THAT CAME
OUT OF THE STAFF REPORT THAT
WAS REGARDING THE TREE THAT'S
RIGHT BEHIND AND IT WAS JUST A
QUESTION OF ARE WE SAVING THE
TREE?
>> WHAT'S WHAT'S THE PLAN WITH
THE TREE?
I DON'T ACTUALLY KNOW WHETHER
WE'RE IN THE SAME AREA.
I MEAN THERE WAS SOMETHING THAT
YOU AND I TALKED ABOUT ON SITE
TOO.
I MEAN I THINK JUST THE REALITY
OF OF HOW CLOSE THE YOU KNOW,
THE FOUNDATION IS GOING TO HAVE
TO BE TO THAT TREE.
I DON'T KNOW THAT IT WOULD
SURVIVE.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, I THINK WE
COULD CERTAINLY TRY TO PROTECT
AS WELL AS WE COULD.
IT'S IT'S NOT YOU KNOW, IT'S
NOT WITHIN THE BOUNDARY OF THE
PROPOSED ADDITION BUT I WOULD
WORRY FOR ITS HEALTH LONG TERM
.
YOU KNOW, WHETHER WHETHER YOU
KNOW WHETHER WE TAKE IT DOWN AS
A PART OF THE CONSTRUCTION OR
WHETHER IT JUST SIMPLY DIES.
YES.
ANOTHER QUESTION SO YOU
MENTIONED LIKE YOU GOT THE
FEEDBACK FROM FROM STAFF ABOUT
THE PROPOSAL AND I'M JUST
CURIOUS LIKE CAN YOU EXPLAIN
WHY THE WHY THE ADDITION TO THE
GARAGE IS WHERE IT IS?
>> THERE IS A LOT OF ROOM
BEHIND THE GARAGE.
>> SURE.
I REALIZE THERE'S A SETBACK BUT
IT MY UNDERSTANDING IT'S
ACCESSORY BUILDING SO THE
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS CAN BE
BUILT WITHIN THE REAR YARD.
>> SO WHAT'S GOING ON?
I MEAN THERE'S AN EXISTING
STRUCTURE THERE AND IT'S IN
PRETTY GOOD SHAPE THE FOOTINGS
YOU KNOW THE FOOTINGS IN THE
FOUNDATION
IN PRETTY GOOD
SHAPE.
SO YOU KNOW, JUST FROM A
PRACTICAL STANDPOINT IN TERMS
OF , YOU KNOW, COST AND
EVERYTHING ELSE, YOU KNOW, IT'S
NICE TO SORT REUSE THOSE
STRUCTURES WHEN WE CAN AND IN
THIS CASE ALL ELSE BEING EQUAL,
YOU KNOW WE CAN.
RIGHT.
SO SO THAT WOULD BE THE
RATIONALE FOR THAT.
NOW YOU KNOW, HAVING SAID THAT,
I THINK IF IF THE COMMITTEE
FELT LIKE, YOU KNOW, THIS THIS
WHOLE STRUCTURE COULD BE
IMPROVED IF WE WERE TO SLIDE IT
BACK, I THINK WE WOULD PROBABLY
DO THAT.
>> OK, WELL THEN I'M
QUESTIONING WHY DIDN'T YOU DO
SOMETHING QUESTIONABLE TO SOME
DEGREE THEN?
BUT IS IT IS THERE ANY QUESTION
AREN'T YOU ALLOWED TO BUILD IN
THE REAR YARD?
>> SURE.
BUT YOU KNOW THIS THIS IS SORT
OF GOING INTO THE SIDE, YOU
KNOW, LIKE IT WOULD CERTAINLY
HAVE TO BE REVISED SOMEWHAT
LIKE YOU KNOW, WE COULDN'T PUSH
IT STRAIGHT BACK.
AS YOU KNOW, WE COULD PUSH IT
BACK AND OVER, YOU KNOW, LIKE
THERE'S THERE'S THE YOU KNOW,
DECREASING THE FIGURE OF WHAT
THEY CALL IT, YOU KNOW, IT'S A
NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE NOW.
RIGHT.
SO SO YOU KNOW, IF WE WERE TO
PUSH IT BACK, YOU KNOW, I DON'T
KNOW IF THEY WOULD MAKE US
BRING IT FULLY INTO COMPLIANCE
OR NOT.
I'M NOT EXACTLY SURE BECAUSE
RIGHT.
>> YEAH, I WOULD LIKE TO I
WOULD LOVE TO HEAR STEPHEN DID
YOU TALK TO JOHN BARRETT, THE
ZONING COORDINATOR?
DID YOU SHOW HIM THIS PLAN
HERE?
HE AND I SORT OF WENT BACK AND
FORTH A FEW TIMES.
OK, OK, AS DREW ON HE SAID HE'S
COMFORTABLE WITH IT.
>> OK, OK.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'LL LEAVE IT AT THAT OK
BECAUSE YEAH THERE WAS A
QUESTION ACCESS TO THE WORKOUT
STUDIO AND WHETHER THAT WAS
SORT OF BEING BEING ACCESSED
THROUGH THE SORT OF COMMON
ENTRY SPACE OR BEING ACCESSED
THROUGH THE GARAGE.
YOU KNOW IF WE IF WE SORT
OF BECAUSE REGIONALLY WE SORT
OF WANTED YOU KNOW, WE TALKED
ABOUT DOING IT BOTH WAYS
ACTUALLY SORT OF YOU KNOW,
PUTTING IT THROUGH THE COMMON
ENTRY AND THEN HAVING THEM WALL
THAT OFF AT SOME POINT IF THEY
IF THEY WANTED TO SORT OF RENT
THAT SPACE OUT AT WHICH POINT
WE WOULD HAVE TO ADD AN ACCESS
POINT THROUGH THE GARAGE AND
FROM A ZONING PERSPECTIVE THAT
SORT OF MEANT THAT COMBINED
THIS WAS NINE HUNDRED SQUARE
FOOT AIDOO INSTEAD OF A 700
SQUARE FOOT.
RIGHT, RIGHT, RIGHT, RIGHT.
SO THE CLIENTS THEY DON'T CARE
.
RIGHT.
LIKE IT'S NOT YOU KNOW LIKE
IT'S IT DOESN'T MATTER SO DID
YOU TALK TO JOHN ABOUT THAT
SIDE SAT BACK AND GARAGE?
I DIDN'T REALLY KNOW.
I MEAN I DIDN'T I COULD
CERTAINLY FOLLOW UP WITH THAT.
>> YEAH.
BECAUSE IT'S SINCE IT'S NOT
CURRENTLY ILLEGALLY CONFORMING
ACCESSORY BUILDING THERE IS A
QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
>> YOU TALKED ABOUT A SECOND
STOREY BUILDING.
THE SECOND STORY ON TOP OF THE
GARAGE.
WHOEVER JUST MENTIONED THAT
IT'S A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
BECAUSE IT'S IT'S NOT FIVE FEET
OR YEAH.
FROM THE LINE ARE THREE FEET OR
WHATEVER IT USE PER
CODE PERMITTED AS OR WITHIN ANY
LEGALLY CONFORMING ACCESSORY
BUILDING AND I'M CONCERNED
ABOUT THAT THREE FEET ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF THE GARAGE.
>> THAT'S ALL I DO YOU THINK
THAT THEY MAY INTERPRET THAT
SINCE WE'RE GOING FROM ONE TO
TWO STORIES AS INCREASING DENHA
CONFORMITY INSTEAD OF THAT'S
WHAT I DON'T KNOW.
YEAH, AND I DON'T I DON'T WRITE
OK?
I ONLY BRING IT UP SOMETHING WE
NEED TO CHECK THAT'S A VARIANCE
ISSUE IF IT'S ANYTHING RIGHT.
I MEAN THAT'S I DON'T THINK
THEY GIVE VARIANCES FOR YOU TO
USE THAT OK AND CONFORMING.
YEAH OK BUT IT MAY BE ALLOWED I
DON'T KNOW WHAT THE PRESIDENT
IS THERE FOR THAT OR IT MAY BE
THAT THE HELP THAT I GET PULLED
OVER FEET WELL NO I FEEL LIKE I
SAID I MEAN I HAD HIM
ESSENTIALLY THE SAME DRAWINGS I
SENT YOU SO HE SHOULD HAVE I
MEAN I DIDN'T ASK HIM ABOUT IT
SPECIFICALLY BUT I SHOULD HAVE
SAID YEAH YEAH.
>> I WANTED TO KNOW IF YOU
DISCUSSED IT SPECIFICALLY BUT
AGAIN I AM I AM NOT WELL VERSED
IN THIS IN THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS WORLD AND WHAT ARE
ALLOWING FOR EIGHT YEARS RIGHT
NOW.
SO YEAH I MEAN WOULD THAT WE'LL
TALK I TALK I WAS MOSTLY ASKING
FOR CLARIFICATION ON THE SORT
OF INTERPRETATION AND YEAH.
YOU KNOW WHETHER HE WOULD
CONSIDER THAT COMMON ENTRY IS
PART OF THE AIDOO OR WHETHER HE
WOULD CONSIDER THAT AS A
SEPARATE YOU AND THAT MADE THAT
MADE SENSE.
THAT WAS MY QUESTION.
I MEAN I DIDN'T ASK THAT
SPECIFICALLY.
I JUST SENT HIM THE DRAWINGS
AND SAID WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS
BASICALLY WHAT ARE YOUR
CONCERNS THAT YOU KNOW?
SO I SORT OF LEFT IT OPEN ENDED
AND THAT THAT WAS HIS ONLY
CONCERN.
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
IN QUESTION?
YEAH, JUST OUT OF CURIOSITY, I
CAN FIND THE PLANE'S YOU KNOW,
THE CEILING HEIGHT OF AIDOO.
>> IT'S TIGHT.
YEAH.
I MEAN I KNOW THAT ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT WE HAD TO SORT
OF DEAL WITH WHEN WHEN WE WERE
LOWER AND YOU KNOW, I THINK THE
FIRST TIME I SENT THIS TO JILL
YOU WE WERE MATCHING THE SORT
OF THE 712 OF PITCH OF THE MAIN
ORIGINAL STRUCTURE AND YOU
KNOW, WHEN WE WE LOOKED AT
LOWERING DOWN THE PLATE HEIGHT
AND ADDING DORMERS AND THAT
SORT OF STUFF, WE LOOKED TO
GOING TO A FLAT ROOF.
WE SETTLED THIS VERSION HERE
WHICH IS GOING TO A SIX TWELVE
ROOF PITCH INSTEAD OF THE SEVEN
TWELVE PITCH WHICH DOES MATCH
THE DORMERS ON THE HOUSE.
BUT THE CEILING IS IN THIS CASE
CATHEDRAL AND WE'RE JUST A
COUPLE OF INCHES ABOVE OUR SORT
OF SEVEN FOOT SEVEN FOOT SEVEN
FOOT HABITABLE SPACE
REQUIREMENTS HERE AT THIS.
SO I DON'T YOU KNOW, IT'S IT'S
SLOPING AT ITS LOWEST POINT.
>> YOU THINK IT'S LIKE THE
LOWEST POINT?
OH JEEZ.
I DIDN'T ACTUALLY REMEMBER WHAT
THE LOWEST POINT ON THAT WAS.
IT'S IT'S PRETTY LOW THOUGH.
I MEAN IT'S YOU KNOW, I DON'T
REMEMBER ACTUALLY WHAT THAT
WAS.
I WAS PROBABLY SOMEWHERE IN THE
FIVE ISH FOOT RANGE SOMEWHERE
SOMEWHERE AROUND THAT NUMBER.
YEAH, I DON'T REMEMBER EXACTLY
I JUST KNOW THAT THE YOU KNOW,
I DID HAVE A CHECK TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE ACTUALLY MET OUR
HABITABLE SPACE REQUIREMENTS
THERE WE DO BUT NOT BY A LOT
GOT IT.
THE ORIGINAL STRUCTURE WE HAD
THE SAME PROBLEM ON THE SECOND
YOU IN THE IN THE BEDROOMS ON
THE SECOND FLOOR WHEN WE WERE
SORT OF YOU KNOW, DOING DOING
THE WORK IN THERE IT WAS IT WAS
TIGHT.
I MEAN IT WAS EXISTING SO IT
WASN'T REALLY YOU KNOW BUT IT
WAS CONCERNING, YOU KNOW,
TRYING TO GET CIRCULATION
ROUTES THROUGH THROUGH A HOUSE
THAT HAS SLOPED ROOFS AND YOU
KNOW, REALLY, REALLY LOW PLATE
HEIGHT CHALLENGING.
>> VERY WELL SAID.
OK, LET'S MOVE ON.
WELL, WE'RE GOING TO GO TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING NOW SO YOU CAN
TAKE A SEAT IF WE HAVE MORE
QUESTIONS, WE MIGHT CALL YOU
BACK UP TO THE PODIUM.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, STEVEN.
OK, SO THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
NOW OPEN FOR FOUR FIVE FOURTEEN
SIXTH STREET SO WE DON'T HAVE
ANYONE PRESENT APPROACH THE
PODIUM AND WE HAVE NO ONE ISSUE
AND NO ONE'S RESUME SO WE CAN
CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING AND
AND WE'LL WE'LL GO TO TO
DISCUSSION AND MOTION.
SO WHAT IS THERE A COMMISSIONER
WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
ON THIS ITEM?
YEAH, I CAN DO IT.
THANK YOU.
FIND THE ONE MOMENT FINDING BEN
YOU'RE MAKING IT I MEAN IT'S
JUST A SUGGESTION
.
WELL, IT'S A VERY WELL THOUGHT
OUT AND VERY WELL WORDED
SUGGESTION AND USUALLY SO WE'LL
TAKE YOU I MOVE.
I MOVE.
THE COMMISSION ISSUED A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT FIVE
FOURTEEN SIX CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY TO THE SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ADD A SECOND FOUR
AND A TWO STORY ADDITION THE
NONCONTRIBUTING GARAGE AS
PROPOSED THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE
IN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT,
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THIS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES ESPECIALLY THOSE
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES AND THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR MILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR TO
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN IN
THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SAY
IN DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING.
>> GREAT.
THAT WAS MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN.
SO YEAH, I THINK WE GOT KIND
OF A UNIQUE PROJECT HERE WHERE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A
NONCONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE SO
THAT MAKES THINGS VERY EASY
TYPICALLY AND THEN WE'RE ALSO
TALKING ABOUT A VERY THOROUGH
APPLICATION WHERE YOU KNOW ALL
THE MATERIALS ARE REALLY IT'S
REALLY CLEAR THE MATERIALS ARE
VERY WELL CHOSEN.
>> THE YOU KNOW EVERYTHING THE
ROOFLINES YOU KNOW EVERYTHING
ABOUT THIS PROJECT HAS BEEN
EXTREMELY WELL THOUGHT OUT AND
DESIGNED AND DESIGNED DESIGNED
OVER MANY ITERATIONS TO GET TO
LIKE THIS THIS UNIQUE PROPOSAL
AND YOU KNOW, IT REALLY DOES
SEEM THAT IT JUST COMES DOWN TO
THAT CORNER OF THE GARAGE AND
THE CORNER OF THE HOUSE.
>> DOES ANYONE DISAGREE THAT
ARE THERE OTHER PARTS OF THIS
PROJECT THAT YOU THINK ARE, YOU
KNOW, KIND OF WORTH WORTH
COMMENTING ON OR DISCUSSING?
>> YEAH, IT'S WORTH YEAH.
>> LET'S DO IT.
YOU KNOW, IN ALMOST EVERY OTHER
CIRCUMSTANCE WHEN THERE'S AN
ADDITION TO A GARAGE I'M JUST
VISUALLY HOPING THAT THERE'S
MORE TEXTURE THAT THERE IS JUST
JUST MAKING IT A BIG BOX.
YEAH.
SOMETHING ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR
PROJECT I THINK IT'S A
COMBINATION OF HOW IT FILLS THE
SITE BUT ALSO THE EXISTING
NATURE OF THE HOUSE AS IT IS
HAS A EXTREMELY FACETED ALMOST
COMPOUND LIKE VIBE TO IT AND
ADDING THE MULTIFACETED
LOTS
OF CORNERS GARAGE BEHIND IT.
I THINK ALMOST BECOMES
OVERWHELMED LIKE THERE'S JUST A
THERE'S A LOT OF QUARTERS
THERE'S THERE'S A LOT
OF THERE'S A LOT OF QUARTERS
AND ANGLES GOING ON.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE HOUSE AS
WELL AS THE SITE, I'M NOT SURE
IF THAT IS I THINK IT BECOMES
PERTINENT IN WHAT WE DO IN THAT
THAT TEXTURE STARTS TO BECOME A
VISUAL INTERFERENCE FROM AN
HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
I THINK THAT'S WHERE IT STARTS
TO HIT ME AS A YOU KNOW, WE
HAVE WE HAVE ARGUED IN THE PAST
THAT PRODUCTS CAN JUST OUT
OF THEIR SCALE OR THEY'RE
INCREASED VISIBILITY FOR OTHER
PURPOSES START TO COMPETE WITH
THE STORAGE STRUCTURE THAT'S
THERE.
AND I THINK THERE'S SOMETHING
ABOUT THOSE CORNERS EVEN IF
EVEN IF IT WASN'T CLOSE TO THE
CORNER OF THE HOUSE, THAT'S
CERTAINLY ANOTHER THING TO BE
CONCERNED ABOUT.
>> THERE'S ALSO JUST JUST A LOT
OF MOVEMENT IN THIS BUILDING
THAT YEAH, I AGREE WITH THAT.
THAT WAS SORT OF THE SENSE I
FELT ON THE SITE WAS SORT
OF FELT IT JUST ADDED KIND
OF MORE COMPLICATION TO THE
WHOLE VIEW AND WASN'T YEAH IT
WOULD IT WAS A LOT OF CORNERS
LIKE YOU SAID IT WAS SORT
OF LIKE IT FELT LIKE IN FILLING
AND THEN SORT OF THE THE
ADDITION OF BLOCKING IN THE
VIEW JUST MAKES IT FEEL A
LITTLE OPPRESSIVE AND I THINK
JUST FROM THE PEDESTRIAN VIEW
COMING ON THE STREET IT WOULD
FEEL A LITTLE LIKE SORT OF THE
HOUSE IS EXPLODING IN EVERY
DIRECTION A LITTLE BIT SO IT
DOESN'T FEEL YEAH.
IN CHARACTER WITH WHAT'S
MISSIONER CALDERON DO YOU HAVE
A DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT ON
THIS?
>> OH ARE YOU AGREEING WITH
WHAT YOU'RE HEARING SO FAR?
>> YEAH.
YEAH I WAS THINKING MORE
ACTUALLY I HAD THOUGHT TOO MUCH
ABOUT THE BUT THE DIFFERENT
GROUP CHANGES AND THE CORNERS
AND WHAT YOU'RE TALKING MORE
FIXATED ON THE SIZE OF THE
BUILDING AND I WOULD JUST WHERE
THE THRESHOLD IN MY HEAD IS FOR
A SUBORDINATE, A DOMINEERING
ADDITIONAL BUILDING AND WHERE
THIS PARTICULAR TUDE STANDS IN
THAT IT HAS PASSED THE POINT
HASN'T PASSED THE POINT.
IT'S DEFINITELY IT'S DEFINITELY
NEAR THE CENTER.
I DON'T THINK IT'S PARTICULARLY
DOMINEERING OR SUBORDINATE TO
ADDITIONAL BILLING AND I THINK
MAYBE THAT ITSELF IS SOMETHING
TO THINK ABOUT.
BUT YEAH, I'M JUST GOING TO
LOOK AT MY NOTES HERE.
>> OH, JUST ONE TOTAL ASIDE WAS
IN THE IN THE APPLICATION IT
CALLS OUT FOR WOOD GREEN FINISH
ON THE ON THE HEARTLAND.
YEAH YEAH.
>> AND THAT THAT'S THAT'S
TOTALLY FINE IF THAT'S WHAT THE
OWNER WANTS BUT THAT'S NOT OUR
PREFERENCE PREFERS.
IF WE COULD CHOOSE WE WOULD
CHOOSE SMOOTH BUT SO I JUST HAD
TO THROW THAT OUT.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE A
DISCUSSION POINT.
>> I JUST WANTED TO LET YOU
KNOW THAT NO SORT OF THE
ORIGINAL SORT OF HDB
APPLICATION.
YEP.
SOME YEARS AGO AND IT'S
POSSIBLE THAT WE HAD THE SAME
KIND OF RIGHT.
>> SO TOTAL ASIDE BUT JUST TAKE
THAT FOR WHAT IT IS IT DOES AND
WILL SET OUT ON THIS PAGE BUT
IT SAYS WHAT GREENSIDE OUT ON
THE DETAIL AND THE DETAILS.
OK, ALL SO THAT'S BEEN NOTED
DOWN HERE.
YEAH.
SO THAT WAS JUST A GOOD OK YEAH
I THINK JUST COMMENTING YOU
WERE JUST SAYING IT'S I DO
WONDER IF THE OVERALL FEELING
IF THEY WERE TO BUILD THE PLAN
AS IS DOES IT FEEL LIKE THE
HOUSE JUST LIKE EXTENDS INTO
THE GARAGE THAT THEY BECOME
SORT OF ONE MASSIVE THING I
THINK LIKE IN THINKING ABOUT IT
YES IT'S AN A2 YES IT'S
SEPARATE.
>> YES.
SOME OF IT IS PUSHED BACK BUT I
MY MY WORRY THE THING I'VE BEEN
LIKE MULLING OVER IS DOES IT
JUST DOES THE OVERALL
IMPRESSION FEEL LIKE THE HOUSE
IS JUST LIKE FULLY EXPANDED TO
TO GO TO THE EDGE OF A LOT WITH
THE PROPOSAL AS IS AND I WONDER
IF EVEN LIKE IF WE COULD PUSH
IT TOWARDS MORE OF THE REAR
OF THE PROPERTY WOULD THAT
RECEDE AND FEEL MORE
SUBORDINATE AND FEEL LIKE THIS
IS A SEPARATE THING THAT
DOESN'T TOUCH THE HOUSE AS
MUCH?
THAT THAT'S THE THING I'VE BEEN
MULLING OVER.
>> YEAH, I AGREE THAT THAT
YEAH.
THAT WOULD BE THAT WOULD NOT BE
GOOD.
>> I DON'T YEAH I DON'T KNOW IF
THAT I DON'T KNOW IF IT'LL HAVE
THAT FEELING BUT CERTAINLY FROM
A CERTAIN ANGLE YES.
MIKE AS YOU KNOW WENT IT
DEPENDS WHEN YOU CATCH IT BUT
YEAH YOU CATCH IT AT A CERTAIN
ANGLE IT'S IT'S GOING TO LOOK
LIKE A LOT OF A LOT
OF STRUCTURE.
>> YEAH I THINK THAT I THINK
THAT THIS THIS APPLICATION
WOULD BE A MUCH BETTER
APPLICATION IF IF THE ADDITION
TO THE GARAGE WAS PUSHED
FURTHER BACK.
I MEAN THAT'S THE MOST OBVIOUS
THING TO SAY.
BUT YOU KNOW, I'LL JUST I'LL
JUST THROW THAT OUT THERE WE IT
WOULD BE VERY EASY TO SAY YES.
I THINK, YOU KNOW, THERE'D
STILL BE ISSUES MAYBE BECAUSE
IT'S IT'S AN TO YOU IT'S BIG
BUT BUT MUCH EASIER.
>> YEAH.
IF THIS JUST WAS PUSHED BACK, I
DO THINK THAT THE THE DESIGNER
DID A VERY HEROIC EFFORT HERE
TRYING TO PUSH FOR FOR
COMPATABILITY WITH THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE WITH ALL OF THE THE
ROOFLINES AND THE MACING
SEPARATING THE MACING INTO TWO
DIFFERENT THINGS AND PUSHING AS
MUCH OF IT BACK AS THEY WANTED
TO.
SO I'M NOT SEEING LIKE I'M NOT
SEEING AN ISSUE WITH
COMPATIBILITY LIKE YOU HAVE YOU
KNOW, THERE'S MORE OF A
COMPATIBLE QUALITY.
>> IT'S NOT JUST CLOSENESS.
THERE'S ALSO LIKE A
COMPATIBILITY THING.
I THINK FOR ME I'M SEEING AN
EXISTING HISTORIC STRUCTURE
THAT'S BEEN ADDED ONTO SO MANY
TIMES THAT IT'S LOST A LOT
OF ITS CHARACTER AND AND SO I'M
NOT AS CONCERNED THAT I WISH
THIS WAS FURTHER AWAY.
>> I'M NOT AS I'M NOT AS
CONCERNED THAT IT'S SO CLOSE
BECAUSE THE EXISTING STRUCTURE
HAS BEEN ADDED ON TO SO MANY
TIMES THAT IT DOESN'T SEEM AS
CRITICAL THAT IT BE LIKE, YOU
KNOW, NOT NOT OH NOT HAVING
LIKE A UNEV THAT'S BELOW IT OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
SO YEAH, I THINK I'M I'M
LEANING MORE TOWARDS IT BEING
COMPATIBLE AND APPROPRIATE
.
>> THERE'S A THERE'S A NOTE IN
THE STAFF REPORT THAT SAYS THE
REAR OF THE HOUSE WAS HEAVILY
MODIFIED WITH ADDITIONS AND
ALTERATIONS IN THE 1970S AND
80S FOR AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS.
>> SO THAT BEING SAID THOUGH
IT'S NOT REALLY THAT CORNER
THOUGH, RIGHT?
I MEAN THERE'S THE DORMER BUT
YEAH, THAT CORNER IS YOU KNOW,
THE HISTORIC CORNER SO THAT YOU
KNOW THAT THERE'S THERE'S
THINGS PULLING ME IN DIRECTIONS
HERE.
>> THE I GUESS THE CRITICAL
THING FOR ME WITH THE HEIGHT IS
KIND OF THAT EVE HEIGHT AND
WE'VE GOT AN EVITE THAT'S LIKE
JUST ABOVE THE HISTORIC HEIGHT
BUT THEN IT'S JUST BELOW THE
DORMER ADDITION HEIGHT.
>> IT'S KIND OF NESTLED IN
THERE.
SO THAT'S WOULD BE BETTER IF IT
WAS LOWER BUT IT'S NOT I DON'T
KNOW KIND OF RIDICULOUSLY HIGH
BUT YEAH, I THINK THAT I'M KIND
OF SEEING MORE LIKE THERE'S A
LOT GOING ON THERE ISSUE AND
SAYING LIKE YEAH WELL THERE'S A
LOT GOING ON THERE.
>> SO IS THIS REALLY ISN'T IT
AREN'T WE ALREADY PAST THE LINE
OF OF OF OF I MEAN I DON'T KNOW
AND THEN THE OTHER THING IS YOU
KNOW IT'S IT'S OBVIOUSLY YOU
KNOW EVEN MORE THAN THE DORMER
EDITION THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT
ON THIS SIDE.
>> THIS IS COMPLETELY REMOVABLE
NOT THAT I WOULD WANT ANYONE TO
REMOVE IT IF IT GETS BUILT BUT
YOU KNOW, IF YOU DO WANT TO
KIND OF RESTORE THIS TO, YOU
KNOW, HISTORIC THAT THAT BACK
PART TO SOME HISTORIC LEVEL,
YOU COULD OBVIOUSLY IT LET'S
JUST LET'S JUST SAY IT DOES FIT
THAT REMOVAL STANDARD.
>> BUT I THINK THE BIG ONE IS
BUILDING SITE.
RIGHT.
SO LET'S BEFORE WE GO TO A VOTE
OR HERE KIND OF FINAL COMMENTS,
JILL, CAN YOU PULL UP THAT
BUILDING SITE AND LET'S JUST
KIND OF BE REALLY SURE HERE AND
LET'S READ THROUGH THAT ONE
BECAUSE I THINK OF ALL OF THEM
I MEAN THAT'S THE ONE THAT IS
REALLY THAT TO ME AT LEAST THE
CRUX OF OF IS DOES THIS MEET OR
NOT HANG ON COMPUTER IT SOUNDS
COMMISSIONER CALDERON IS SORT
OF YOU AND I MAYBE OR AN
AGREEMENT.
>> YEAH.
AND THIS IS THINGS PULLING THIS
WAY IN THAT HERE AND IT'S
REALLY THE THE BUILDING SITE
LIKE YOU SAID IS IT SABOOR OR
IS IT DOMINANT OR SOMETHING.
>> RIGHT.
YEAH.
IS IT STANDARD OR GUIDELINES
THAT YOU'RE LOOKING FOR.
I THINK IT WAS THE BUILDING
SITE THE SECRETARY INTERIOR
GUIDELINES THE ALTERATION
OF SPACES THIS ONE IT WAS AFTER
THIS CREATED THIS ONE IS
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE SO I
THINK IT'S A GUIDELINE PROBABLY
YEAH.
>> AND NINE WAS THE ONE THAT
YOU WERE SAYING, RIGHT?
YEAH.
NINE IS BECAUSE THAT'S ABOUT
COMPATIBLE THERE.
>> THE ISSUE IS THAT IT'S NOT
COMPATIBLE WITH THIS WITH THIS
SCALE AND
IT'S ENVIRONMENT
PROPERTY AND YEAH YEAH THAT'S
THE ONE THING THAT I FEEL LIKE
I ALSO KEEP COMING BACK TO WITH
THE THE WAY IT SORT OF FILLS IN
THAT VOID AND THE BETWEEN THE
HOUSE AND THE GARAGE AND LIKE
THE THROUGH LINE WHERE YOU CAN
KIND OF GET THE FILIGREE OF THE
VIEW THAT THAT'S THAT'S THE
PLACE WHERE LIKE I HEAR YOU
WITH THE HOW WHAT ARE WE LIKE
WHAT ARE WE DOING WHEN IT'S
CHANGED SO MUCH.
BUT THEN I THINK THAT IS REALLY
CHARACTERISTIC THE GARAGE I
DON'T KNOW IF IT MATTERS TO YOU
BUT THE GARAGE IS NOT A
HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
NO, I KNOW.
SO THAT'S THAT'S A CONTRIBUTOR.
NO THAT I KNOW I THINK IT'S THE
THE OVERALL ENVIRONMENT THE THE
INTERPLAY BETWEEN THOSE
ELEMENTS.
THAT'S IT FOR ME.
YEAH.
LET'S JUST LET'S JUST FINISH
HERE POSSIBLY.
>> YEAH
YEAH I THINK IT'S THIS
ONE IT WAS THAT THAT ONE RIGHT
THERE ARE THESE TWO YEAH YEAH.
>> INTRODUCING A NEW BUILDING
THAT'S OUT OF SCALE OR
OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE AND
INTRODUCING NEW CONSTRUCTION
THAT'S VISUALLY I THINK IT'S
THIS ONE SIZE SCALE DESIGN
MATERIALS COLOR TEXTURE OR JUST
STRONG RELATIONSHIPS.
YEAH
.
ALL RIGHT.
SO EVEN IF YOU HAVE A QUICK
COMMENT YOU HAVE TO COME TO THE
PODIUM, COME TO THE PODIUM
PLEASE.
>> OH, I'M SORRY.
YEAH.
I'M SO SORRY TO INTERRUPT BUT I
KNOW WE'RE SORT OF TALKING A
LITTLE BIT OR A LOT.
THERE'S A LOT OF DISCUSSION
ABOUT SORT OF LOCATION AND THE
CLOSENESS TO THE HOUSE.
ONE THING THAT I DO THINK WHERE
THAT'S NOT BEING DISCUSSED IS
THE SORT OF OPENNESS THAT
EXISTS THROUGH THAT WHOLE
STRING OF YARDS RIGHT NOW.
YOU KNOW, REMEMBER AS WE WERE
THERE, IF YOU SORT OF GO TO THE
BACK OF THE PROPERTY BEHIND
THIS THE THE PROPOSED STRUCTURE
HERE, IT'S REALLY NICE THERE'S
REALLY NICE SIGHTLINES ALL UP
AND DOWN THAT WHOLE PART OF THE
OF THE BLOCK.
AND IF WE WERE TO SORT OF PUSH
BACK INTO THAT IT WOULD THEY
WOULD IT WOULD REALLY ALTER
THAT FOR FOR EVERYONE WHO LIVES
THERE.
>> SO THAT'S YEAH.
JUST WANTED TO MENTION THAT I
APPRECIATE YOU ADDING SOMETHING
NEW TO THIS DISCUSSION.
SO THAT WAS VERY HELPFUL
COMMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH.
I MEAN I DO THINK THERE IS
SOMETHING TO THAT THERE'S THE
EXISTING GARAGE FOOTINGS THERE.
THEY'RE THEY ARE WHERE THEY ARE
THEY'RE FORTY TWO INCH DEEP
FROST FOOTINGS.
WE WERE TALKING ABOUT IT ON
SITE AND THAT IS ALSO A NICE
PART THAT THOSE CAN BE REUSED
FOR THE PROJECT.
I MEAN THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
YOU GET TO BUILD A TWO STOREY
BUILDING NECESSARILY BUT I
DON'T KNOW FOR ME FOR ME IT
DOES KIND OF ADD TO THE WHOLE
STORY IS THIS THE RIGHT PLACE
TO PUT THIS THING OR NOT?
>> OK, SO DO YOU HAVE ANOTHER
COMMENT?
YEAH.
OK, ANY MORE COMMENTS?
ALL RIGHT.
IT SEEMS LIKE THERE'S WE'VE GOT
A SPLIT COMMISSION HERE SO I I
JUST WANT TO SAY YEAH I THINK
THAT I THINK THIS IS VERY CLOSE
TO BEING IT'S CLOSE TO BEING
INAPPROPRIATELY TOO CLOSE TO
THE HOUSE BUT FOR ALL THE ALL
THE OTHER REASONS I FEEL LIKE
THIS IS YOU KNOW, BASICALLY
JUST LIKE THE REALLY THE REALLY
CAREFUL DESIGN OF THE STRUCTURE
IS IS ALLOWING ME TO SAY THAT
THIS IS TO ME COMPATIBLE WITH
THIS PARTICULAR LIKE WHAT IS
EXISTING IN THE BACK OF THIS
PARTICULAR HOUSE.
>> SO THAT'S WHERE I'M AT AND I
WOULD LOVE TO JUST HEAR LIKE A
SUMMARY OF KIND OF WHERE EITHER
YOU ARE COMMISSIONER NESBITT'S
STAND JUST TO KIND OF HEAR IT.
DO EITHER OF YOU JUST WANT TO
RESTATE QUICKLY KIND OF WHERE
YOU'RE AT?
I'M TORN AND THE I THINK THE
BACK AND FORTH LOOKING AT THE
THE SITE YOU KNOW, THE BUSYNESS
BOTHERS ME BUT I DON'T I DON'T
KNOW THAT IT THAT THE CONTEXT
OF THAT IS VALUABLE HERE AND
AND IN GENERAL I HAVE A I HAVE
AN OVERRIDING I'M AWARE OF AND
I KNOW HOW HARD IT IS TO TRY TO
FIT A MODERN LIFE INTO A SMALL
HISTORIC HOUSE LIKE THERE'S
THERE'S A PRESSURE TO YOU KNOW,
I'D LIKE TO SEE THESE THINGS
REDUCE LIKE PEOPLE LIVING IN
THESE HOUSES AND I KNOW THAT
YOU'VE HAD QUITE A BIT TO THEM
SOMETIMES BECAUSE THEY STARTED
OUT VERY SMALL IN THE WAY WE
LIVE IN HOUSES IS DIFFERENT.
SO WHEN I'M ON THE FENCE I
THINK THAT THAT INSTINCT MAYBE
PULLS ME INTO GIVING IT THE
BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT.
>> OK, COMMISSIONER NESBITT,
WILL YOU RESTATE YOUR CASE?
>> ER I THINK I FEEL SIMILARLY
A LOT OF WAYS TORN BECAUSE I
SIMILARLY FEEL LIKE I LIKE I
LIKE BEING ABLE TO HAVE PEOPLE
HAVE FLEXIBILITY WITH HOW THEY
USE THEIR HOMES AND BEING ABLE
TO LIKE REALLY LIVE IN THESE
PLACES.
BUT I DO FEEL LIKE I STILL KIND
OF HAVE THE CONCERNS ABOUT HOW
CHANGES THE HOW DOES IS NOT
FEEL COMPATIBLE WITH WITH
WHAT'S IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
ESPECIALLY I THINK IN SOME WAYS
WHEN WE THINK ABOUT IT HOW IT
RELATES TO THE THE HOUSE ITSELF
WITH ALL OF THOSE ADDITIONS
IT'S LIKE OK, SURE WE'VE KIND
OF MOVED AWAY FROM FULLY YOU
KNOW, PLACE IT'S TOTALLY A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE THROUGH
AND THROUGH.
BUT I DO FEEL LIKE IT IS THAT
THE THING THAT I THINK THE
PLACE I'M MOST STUCK IS JUST
LIKE PRESERVING THAT
RELATIONSHIP IN THE ENVIRONMENT
LIKE WHERE IF YOU'RE WALKING AS
A PEDESTRIAN YOU JUST FEEL LIKE
YOU'RE LIKE WALKING PAST A
HOUSE FOR ONE HUNDRED YEARS
BECAUSE JUST LIKE BEING
ATTACKED BY YOU KNOW AND HOW
HOW DOES THAT I'M BALANCING OUT
WITH THE EXPERIENCE OF THE
NEIGHBORS TOO.
>> RIGHT.
LIKE SO LIKE THE PEDESTRIAN
EXPERIENCE AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD
EXPERIENCE VERSUS LIKE IF YOU
ARE AN ACTUAL NEIGHBOR OF THAT
BUILDING, HOW DO YOU FEEL IF
EVEN IF WE ASKED THEM TO PUSH
IT FARTHER BACK?
>> SO I'M ALSO TORN I'M LEANING
A LITTLE BIT TOWARDS WANTING TO
I'M CURIOUS IF THERE'S A WAY TO
LIKE KEEP THIS EDITION BUT HAVE
IT JUST MATCH A LITTLE BIT
BETTER.
THAT'S MY FEELING.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> WELL, I THINK WE'VE HEARD
THE DISCUSSION AND BUT ARE YOU
READY TO VOTE BECAUSE WE'VE GOT
TORUn PEOPLE OK, LET'S GO TO A
VOTE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO NO.
OK, I HEARD THREE YESES AND ONE
NO.
SO THE MOTION CARRIES AND YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
>> YEAH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OK SO NOW THOUGH THAT WAS
THAT WAS THE ONLY HEARING.
WELL WE'LL MOVE ON AND WE'VE
KIND OF BEEN THROUGH THIS ONCE
ALREADY BUT NOW THAT WE HAVE
THE QUORUM WE CAN DO WE CAN DO
MORE STUFF HERE AND SO THE
FIRST THING WE'LL MOVE TO IS ON
TO ITEM G ITS NEW BUSINESS AND
I DON'T KNOW IF WE CAN DO THIS
OR NOT.
JILL, CAN WE CAN WE TALK ABOUT
THE NOMINEE IN COMMITTEE
WITHOUT OUR NOMINATING OFFICER
HERE OR DO WE HAVE TO POSTPONE
THAT TILL NEXT MONTH?
COMMISSIONER SMITH WAS OUR
NOMINATING COMMITTEE AND HE'S
NOT HERE.
>> THIS IS OCTOBER .
YEAH.
CAN WE TALK ABOUT THIS IN
NOVEMBER WE WERE IN TROUBLE.
OK, GOOD.
>> HE'S NOT HERE IN NOVEMBER.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO DO IT
WITHOUT WELL WE'LL HAVE TO
NOMINATE A NEW NOMINATING
COMMITTEE.
>> YEAH THAT'S FINE.
THAT SHOULDN'T BE TOO HARD.
WE'VE GOT A FULL COMMISSION BUT
WE'RE SHORT AN OFFICER RIGHT.
>> YEAH.
SO YOU BETTER GET THAT TAKEN
CARE OF .
>> YEAH OK OK VERY GOOD.
WE'LL POSTPONE THAT NEW
BUSINESS THAT WILL BECOME OLD
BUSINESS.
>> I KNOW YOU'RE GOOD THANK
YOU.
THANKS TONIGHT.
OK AND THEN WE HAD MINUTES BUT
I ACTUALLY DID DID ANYONE SEE
THAT THERE WERE MINUTES BECAUSE
WHEN I CHECKED THEY HADN'T BEEN
POSTED YET BUT OK I DON'T KNOW
IF THIS SEPTEMBER SO AGAIN
WE'LL WE'LL DO THAT IN NOVEMBER
ALSO I DIDN'T ACTUALLY SEE THEM
IF THEY WERE THERE OR NOT OK
WHEN I LOOKED THEY WEREN'T
THERE BUT I HAVEN'T LOOKED
SINCE A COUPLE OF DAYS.
THAT'S FINE THANK YOU.
WE WILL TAKE CARE OF THAT.
>> ARE THERE REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS'.
>> NO WE'VE.
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN BEING ON
THE ASSIGNMENT THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE NEXT MONTH IT'S YEAH
OK THAT'LL BE NOVEMBER 10TH AT
NOON TO NOON.
>> OK THANK YOU.
GOOD THANK YOU STEVE AND YEAH
YOU'LL BE ON THAT WITH LISBET
AND NOW WE HAVE WE'VE GOTTEN
THE REPORT FROM STAFF ABOUT THE
ANNUAL RETREAT THERE WAS JUST
REPEATED FOR FOR COMMISSIONER
KAPLAN HOLD.
WE THINK THAT NOVEMBER 8TH IS
GOING TO BE THE DATE BUT THERE
ARE NO HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
NEXT MONTH AND JILL MADE THE SO
FAR THERE PROBABLY WILL BE ONE
OR TWO MAYBE BUT JAMADI
EXCELLENT IDEA.
>> WELL, LET'S JUST HAVE IT
DURING THE MEETING IF WE YOU
KNOW JUST WELL BASICALLY AFTER
THE MEETING I'D HAVE IT WE'D
HAVE THE MEETING THEN WE'D HAVE
A TRUNCATED ANNUAL MEETING.
>> YEAH, WE ALL THOUGHT THAT
WAS A FANTASTIC IDEA.
>> CAN WE SELL REALIZE OH IS
THAT APPROPRIATE AND I CAN GET
SOMETHING MORE SOME EVENING
APPROVED EVENING APPROPRIATE
SNACK WOULD BE GREAT.
>> STOP.
>> THAT WAS AN EXCELLENT
COMMENT.
COMMISSIONER CALDERON, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK FOR THE PEOPLE.
YES.
OK, ARE THERE ANY CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONER OK, I DON'T
THINK
THERE WERE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS THIS MONTH BUT I
WILL ASK STAFF IF THERE ARE ANY
THERE ARE NO COMMUNICATION.
>> VERY GOOD IN THAT CASE.
SAY ONE MORE THING BEFORE YOU
TWO.
ABSOLUTELY.
AS WE ARE SITTING HERE I WAS
WRITING DOWN POTENTIAL FUTURE
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR IDEAS.
>> YEAH, THAT'S RESTRUCTURES.
WE'VE WE'VE NOW BEEN THROUGH A
COUPLE OF BIG EIGHTY USE AND
KIND OF STRUGGLED WITH BOTH
OF THEM SO BEFORE WE THOUGHT
JUST THE ACCESSORY STRUCTURE
LANGUAGE MIGHT BE ENOUGH MAYBE
IT'S NOT SO I MIGHT COME BACK
TO YOU GUYS WITH A PROPOSAL FOR
SOME NEW DESIGN GUIDELINES.
>> LOOK TO NOT DISCUSS A LITTLE
BIT OF STRUCTURE.
>> YEAH THAT WOULD BE NICE
BECAUSE THEY'RE BIG.
>> YEAH THE BUT WE DIDN'T
DISCUSS ANY USE DURING OUR
WHOLE REWRITE OF THE IT DIDN'T
COME UP.
NO BECAUSE THEY'RE JUST LUMPED
IT'S JUST EXCESSIVE.
YEAH RIGHT YEAH.
YEAH AND THIS DOESN'T HAVE TO
BE SPECIFIC TO TO USE BECAUSE
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE A RIGHT
COULD STILL BE JUST A REALLY
BIG ACCESSORY STRUCTURE BUT
SOMETHING THERE'S SOMETHING
ABOUT IN IDEA WHERE IT'S LIKE
IF YOU WANT AN EDU WELL THERE'S
A LOT OF REQUIREMENTS THAT GO
INTO THAT AND IT JUST SEEMS TO
FIGHT AGAINST THE STANDARDS BUT
ALSO IT'S LIKE WELL THE IT KIND
OF GIVES THE APPLICATION
SOMETHING TO YOU KNOW,
SOMETHING THERE'S SOMETHING
THERE WHERE IT'S LIKE THAT
YOU'RE NOT JUST WANTING A BIG
YOGA STUDIO OR SOMETHING.
YOU'RE TRYING TO ADD TO THE
DENSITY OF THE CITY AND THE
CITY WANTS TO YOU YOU KNOW IT'S
TO ME THERE'S SOMETHING YOU
DON'T HAVE.
BILL NADIE, LIKE YOU SAID YOU
COULD JUST BUILD A REALLY BIG
ADDITION TO YOUR GARAGE, YOU
KNOW?
SO I DON'T KNOW.
I AGREE.
I THINK THERE SHOULD BE
SOMETHING SPECIFIC BECAUSE IT'S
IT'S A TOTALLY DIFFERENT THING
AND I HAD YEAH.
>> GOOD.
>> THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
FANTASTIC.
OK, LET'S ADJOURN THE
OCTOBER NINE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
MEETING AT EIGHT 19 PM A LITTLE
LATER THAN MAYBE WE THOUGHT BUT